
PART I - GENERAL

1. Evidence may be given in any suit or proceeding of the existence or non-existence of every
fact in issue and of such other facts as are hereafter declared to be relevant, and of no
others
Provided that .-
(a) the court may exclude evidence of facts which though relevant or deemed to be
relevant to the issue, appears to it to be too remote to be material in all the
circumstances of the case; and
(b) this section shall not enable any person to give evidence of a fact which he i<
disentitled to prove by any provision of the law for the time being in force.
2. For the avoidance of doubt, all evidence given in accordance with section 1 shall, unless
excluded in accordance with this or any other Act, or any other legislation validly in force in
Nigeria, be admissible in judicial proceedings to which this Act applies:
Provided that admissibility of such evidence shall be subject to all such conditions as may be
specified in each case by or under this Act.
3. Nothing in this Act shall prejudice the admissibility of any evidence that is made
admissible by any other legislation validly in force in Nigeria.
PART II,- RELEVANCY
Relevance of Facts
Commencement
Evidence may be
given of facts in issue
and relevant facts
Evidence In
accordance with
section I gencratf
admissible.
Admissibility of
evidence under other
legislation
4. Facts which, though not in issue. arc so connected with a fact in issue as to form part or
the same transaction. are relevant. whether they occurred at the same time and place or at
different times and places.
5. Facts which arc the occasion, cause or effect. immediate or otherwise, ofrelevant facts. or
facts in issue. or which constitute the state of things under which they happened, or which
afforded an opportunity for their occurrence or transaction. arc relevant.
6. (I) Any fact is relevant which shows or constitutes a motive or preparation for any fact in
issue or relevant fact.
(2) The conduct. whether previous or subsequent to any proceeding-
(a) of any party to any proceeding, or an agent to such party, in reference to such
suit or proceeding or in reference to any fact in issue in it or a fact relevant to it;
and
(b) of any person an offence against whom is the subject of any proceeding. is
relevant in such proceedings if such conduct influences or is influenced by any
fact in issue or relevant fact.
(3) The word "conduct" in this section does not include statements, unless those statements
accompany and explain acts other than statements. but this provision shall not affect the
relevance of statements under any other section.
(4) When the conduct of any person is relevant, any statement made to him or in his presence
and hearing which affects such conduct is relevant.
7, Facts
(1) necessary to explain or introduce a fact in issue or relevant fact;
(b) which support or rebut an inference suggested by a fact in issue or relevant fact;
(c) which establish the identity of anything 01" person whose identity is relevant:
(d) which fix the time or place at which any fact in issue or relevant fact happened: or
(e) which show the relation of parties by whom any such fact was transacted. arc
relevant in so far as they are necessary for that purpose.
8. (J) Where there is reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired
together to commit an offence or an actionable wrong. anything said, done or written by any
aile of such persons in execution or furtherance of their common intention, after the time when
such intention was first entertained by one of them, is a relevant fact as against each of the
RC\cV<lI1(';l' or litt:1S
forming pari OfSHll1l'
uunsacrion.
l'aclS which arc the
occasion. cause 01
cllcct or JiH.:1S ill iSSLIe
Motive preparation
and previous or "'0-
sCl111Cnl conduct.
Facts neccssarv u￾explain 01 illlrllll'H.;':
relevant 1[I..-ts
lhingx said or dum· hI
conspmuo- III
retercncc III common
intention
persons believed 10 be so conspiring, for the purpose of proving the existence of the
conspiracy as well as [or the purpose of showing that any such person was a party to it.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (I) of this section, statements made by individual conspirators
as to measures taken in the execution or furtherance of such common intention are not deemed
to he relevant as such as against any conspirator, except those by whom or in whose presence
such statements arc made.
(J! Evidence of acts or statements deemed to be relevant under this section may not be given
until the court is satisfied that, apart from them, there arc prima facie grounds Ior believing the
existence of the conspiracy to which they relate.
9. Facts not otherwise relevant are relevant if ~ ..
(8) they are inconsistent with any fact in issue or relevant fact; and
(b) by themselves or in connection with other facts they make the existence or non￾existence of any fact in issue or relevant fact probable or improbable.
10. In proceedings in which damages are claimed, any fact which will enable the court to
determine the amount of damages which ought to be awarded is relevant.
11. (1) Facts showing the existence 0 r.--
(a) any state of mind such as intention. knowledge, good faith. negligence.
rashness, ill-will or goodwill towards any particular person: or
(b) any state of body or bodily feeling arc relevant when the existence of any
such state of mind or body or bodily feeling is in issue or relevant.
("2) A fact relevant as showing the existence of a relevant state of mind must show that the
state of mind exists, not generally, but in reference to the particular matter in question.
12. When there is a question whether an act was accidental or intentional. or done with a
particular knowledge or intention or to rebut any defence that may otherwise be open to the
defendant, the fact that such act formed part of a series of similar occurrences. in each ol
which the person doing the act was concerned. is relevant.
13. When there is a question whether a particular act was done, the existence of any course 0 f
business. according to which it naturally would have been done, is a relevant fact.
When fads not
otherwise relevant
become relevant
Certain facts rctcvmu
in proceedings for
dmll'lge.~
Facts showing
existence ofstntl" of
mind. bod) or boclil:-
""I;,>g
Facts bearing on
question whether act
was accidental 01
intentionul
Fxistcnce of course or
business. when
relevant
PAR'I IIl- - RELI'I'P,NCE AND ADMISSIBILITY 01- CER'[,,,I\ EVIDENCE
Improperly Obtained Evidence
14. Evidence obtained-
(a) improperly or in contravention of a law; or
(b) in consequence of an impropriety or of a contravention of a law.
shall he admissible unless the court is of the opinion that the desirability of'
admitting the evidence is out-weighed by the undesirability of admitting evidence
that has been obtained in the manner in which the evidence was obtained.
15. For the purposes of section 14, the matters that the court shall take into account include--
(a) the probative value of the evidence;
(b) the importance of the evidence in the proceeding;
(c) the nature of the relevant offence. cause of action or defence and the nature of
the subject-matter of the proceeding;
(d) the gravity of the impropriety or contravention;
(c) whether the impropriety or contravention was deliberate or reckless.
(f) whether any other proceeding (whether or not in a court) has been or is likely 10
be taken in relation to the impropriety or contravention; and
(g) the difficulty. if any, of obtaining the evidence without impropriety 0:
contravention of law.
Customs
Discretion to c-cchtdc
impnlpcrl~ obtained
evidence
Maners court to take
into account under
section 14
What customs
16. (1) A custom may be adopted as part of the law governing a particular set of admissible
circumstances if it can be judicially noticed or can be proved to exist by evidence.
(2) The burden of proving a custom shall lie upon the person alleging its existence.
17. A custom may be judicially noticed when it has been adjudicated upon once by a superior
court of record.
18. (I) Where a custom cannot be established as one judicially noticed. it shall be proved as a
fact
Judicial nolit:l' or
UISIOln
Evidence of custnm-,
(2) Where the existence or the nature of a custom applicable to a given case is in issue, there
may be given in evidence the opinions of persons v,'110 would be likely to know of its
existence in accordance with section 73.
(3J In any judicial proceeding where any custom is relied upon. it shall not be enforced as law
if it is contrary to public policy. or is not in accordance with natural justice, equity and good
conscience.
19. l.~vcry fact is deemed to be relevant which tends to show how in particular instances a
matter alleged to be a custom was understood and acted upon by persons then interested.
Admissions
20. An admission is a statement oral or documentary, or conduct which suggests any
inference as to any fact in issue or relevant fact, and which is made by any of the persons, and
in the circumstances, mentioned in this Act.
21. (1) Statements made by a party to the proceeding or by an agent to any such party, whom
the court regards. in the circumstances of the case, as expressly or impliedly authorised by him
to make them, are admissions.
(2) Statements made by parties to suits, suing or sued in a representative character, are not
admissions unless they were made while the party making them held that character.
C' I Statements mack by persons
(a) who have any proprietary or pecuniary interest in the subject-matter of the
proceedings. and who made the statements in their character of persons SU
interested: or
(b) n'0111 whom the parties to the suit have derived their interest in the subject
matter of the suit. are admissions, if they are made during the continuance ofthe
interest of the person making the statements.
22, Statements made by persons whose position or liability it is necessary to prove as against
any party to the suit are admissions if such statements would be relevant as against such
persons in relation to such position or liability in a suit brought by or against them. and ifthey
are made whilst the person making them occupies such position or is subject to such liability.
23. Statements made by persons to whom a party to the suit has expressly referred for
information in reference to a matter in dispute arc admissions.
24. Admissions are relevant and may be proved as against the person who makes them OJ" his
representative in interest, but they cannot be proved h)' or on behalf of the person who makes
them or by his representative in interest. except in the following caSC8--'
Relevant ract~ as to
h011 matter nlJegl'd to
he custom understood
Admission defined
Admission hy privicx
Athni~~ion~h.' person￾wll()s..: position must
be proved a~ a~l\illst
pattv 10 Sill!
l\dllljssilll1~ by perSOll:-'
expressly referred \0
by pari.'10 :-l.lil
Proof or adnusvion-,
agmnsl persons
makiug them. and b)
or on their hchul r
(a) an admission may be proved hy or on behalf of the person making it when it is
of such a nature that, ifthe person making it cannot he called as a witness, it would
be relevant as between third parties under sections 39 to 45;
(b) an admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person making it. when it
consists of a statement of the existence of any state of mind or body, relevant or in
issue, made at or about the time when such state of mind or body existed, and is
accompanied by conduct rendering its falsehood improbable; and
(c) an admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person making it, if it is
relevant otherwise than as an admission.
25. Oral admissions as to the contents of a document are not relevant, unless and until the
party proposing to prove them shows that he is entitled to give secondary evidence of the
contents of such document under Part V or unless the genuineness of a document produced is
in question.
26. In civil cases no admission is relevant, if it is made either upon an express condition that
evidence of it is not to be given, or in circumstances from which the court can infer that the
parties agreed together that evidence ofit should not be given:
Provided that nothing in this section shall be taken to exempt any legal practitioner from
giving evidence of any matter of which he may be compelled to give evidence under section
192.
2'7. Admissions are 1101 conclusive proof or the matters admitted but they may operate a~
estoppel under Part X.
Confessions
28. A confession is an admission made at any time by a person charged with a crime, stating
or suggesting the inference that he committed that crime.
29. (J) In any proceeding, a confession made by a defendant may be given in evidence
against him in so far as it is relevant to any matter in issue in the proceedings and is not
excluded by the court in pursuance of this section.
(2) If. in any proceeding where the prosecution proposes to give in evidence a confession
made by a defendant it is represented to the court that the confession was or may have been
obtained -
(a) by oppression of the person who made it, or
(b) in consequence of anything said or done which was likely. in the circumstances
existing at the time. to render unreliable any confession which might be made by him
illsuch consequence,
When oraludnussion￾as III contents 01
documents <lIT
relevant
Admissions in civil
cases. when relevant
\dJlli~:;inJ1." 11('\
LUlldu,.i"c· l'J".1;d. hil
'lW~ c-rop
Conrcssicn defined
When comcssion J:
relevant
the court shall not allow the confession to he given in evidence against him except in
so far as the prosecution proves to the court beyond reasonable doubt that the
confession (notwithstanding that it may be true) was not obtained in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this section.
(1) In any proceeding where the prosecution proposes to give in evidence a confession made
by a defendant. the court may of its own motion require the prosecution. as a condition of'
allowing it to do so. to prove that the confession was not obtained as mentioned in either
subsection (2)(a) or (b) of this section.
(4} Where more persons than one are charged jointly with an offence and a confession made
by one olsuch persons in the presence of one or more of the other persons so charged is given
in evidence, the court shall not take such statement into consideration as against any of such
other persons in whose presence it was made unless he adopted the said statement by words or
conduct.
(5) In this section "oppression" includes torture, inhuman or degrading treatment. and the use
or threat of violence whether or not amounting to torture.
30. Where information is received from a person who is accused of an offence, whether such
person is in custody or not, and as a consequence of such information any fact is discovered,
the discovery of that fact, together with evidence that such discovery was made in
consequence of the information received from the defendant may be given in evidence where
such information itself would not be admissible in evidence.
31. lfa confession is otherwise relevant. it docs not become irrelevant merely because it was
made under a promise of secrecy. or in consequence of a deception practised on the defendant
for the purpose of obtaining it or when he was drunk, or because it was made ill answer to
questions which he need not have answered, whatever may have been the form of these
questions. or because he was not warned that he was not bound to make such statement and
that evidence of it might be given.
32. Evidence amounting to a confession may be used as such against the person who gives
it. although it was given upon oath, and although the proceeding in which it was given had
reference to the same subject-matter as the proceeding in which it is to be proved. and
although the witness might have refused to answer the question put to him, but jf. after
refusing to answer any such question the witness is improperly compelled to answer it, his
answer is not admissible as a confession.
Statements Generally
33, When any statement of which evidence is given forms part of a longer statement or of a
conversation or part of' an isolated document or is contained in a document which forms part
(J/" a book. or of a connected series of letters or papers, evidence shall be given of so much and
no more or the statement conversation, document. book 0]" series of letters or papers as the
Facb discovered ill
consequence of"
information givcn b~
defendant.
Cunk".\ioli ,)li'cn\ !"
relevant Ih)\ to ~WC(.·l"
irrelevant because 01
promise ofsccrccy .
etc
Lvidcncc in other
nrocccchnp mnOl!lllin.l'
to u contessio» i~
adllli~slbic
what evidence to Ill"
given when xtarcmcnr
fonns par! of 11
convcrsat ion.
document. booh tu
series of kilns 01
papers
court considers necessary in that particular case to the full understanding of the nature and
effect of the statement and of the circumstances in which it was made
34. \1) III estimating the weight, if any. to be attached to a statement rendered admissible as
evidence by this ACL regard shall be had to ali the circumstances from which any inference
call reasonably be drawn as to the accuracy or otherwise of the statement, and in particular--
(a) to the question whether or not the statement was made contemporaneously with the
occurrence or existence of the facts stated, and to the question whether or not the
maker of the statement had any incentive to conceal or misrepresent facts; and
(b) in the case ora statement contained in a document produced by a computer-
(i) the question whether or not the information which the statement contained,
reproduces or is derived from, was supplied to it, contemporaneously with the
occurrence or existence ofthe facts dealt with in that information, and
(ii) the question whether or not any person concerned with the supply of
information to that computer or with the operation of that computer or any
equipment by means of which the document containing the statement was
produced by it, had any incentive to conceal or misrepresent facts.
(2 I For the purpose of any rule of law or practice requiring evidence to be corroborated or
regulating the manner in which uncorroborated evidence is to be treated, a statement rendered
admissible as evidence by this Act shall not be treated as corroboration of evidence given by
the maker of the statement
Acts in Relation to Land.
35, Acts of possession and enjoymeru of land may be evidence of ownership or of a right or
occupancy not only of the particular piece or quantity of land with reference to which such
acts are done. but also of other land so situated or connected with it by locality or similarny
that what is true as to the one piece of land is likely to be true of the other piece of land.
Scienter
36. (1) Whenever any person is being proceeded against for receiving any property. knowing
it to have been stolen or for having in his possession stolen property. for the purpose of
proving guilty knowledge, there may be given in evidence at any stage of the procccding->-
(a) the fact that other property stolen within the period of 12 months preceding the
date of the offence charged was found or had been in his possession: and
(b) the fact that within the 5 years preceding the date of the offence charged he was
convicted of any offence involving fraud or dishonesty.
(2) The (act mentioned in subsection (i) (b) of this section may not be proved unless-·
Weight to bv auachcd
10",I"",,,b'"
suucmcms
I\c\S "rp{h.'\S.'lit'l~ id](!
cnjoymcut (Of iil)~;: l1l:-l;
be cv.dcncc
l.vidcncc nl:>..:ic:nlt:l
upon charge 01
receiving stolen
pr()pcn~
(a) 7 days notice in writing has been given to the offender that proof of such
previous conviction is intended to be given: and
(b) evidence has been given that the property in respect of which the offender is
being tried was found or had been in his possession.
PARI IV--- HEARSA Y, OPINION AND CHARACTER EVIDENCE: RELeVANCE AND ADMISSIBILlTV
Hearsay Evidence
Hearsay Evidence Generally.
37. Hearsay means a statement ---
(a) oral or written made otherwise than by a witness in a proceeding; or
(b) contained or recorded in a book, document or any record whatever. proof of
which is not admissible under any provision of this Act, which is tendered in evidence
for the purpose of proving the truth of the matter stated in it.
J Icursay defined
38. Hearsay evidence is not admissible except as provided in this Part or by or under any Hearsay rule
other provision of this or any other Act.
Statements made by Persons who cannot be called as Witnesses
39. Statements. whether written or oral of facts in issue or relevant facts made by a person
(a) who is dead:
(b) who cannot be found:
(c) who has become incapable of giving evidence; or
(d) whose attendance cannot be procured without an amount of delay or expense
which under the circumstances of the case appears to the court unreasonable, are
admissible under section 40 to 50.
40. (1) A statement made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the
circumstances of the events which resulted in his death in cases in which the cause of that
person's death comes into question is admissible where the person who made it believed
himself to be in danger of approaching death although he may have entertained at the time of
making it hopes of recovery.
(2) A statement referred to in subsection (J) of this section shall be admissible whatever may
be the nature of the proceeding in which the cause of death comes into question.
Suucmeut-, h:- l'~'r~(ljl'
who cannot h,' L',dkd
a~ wuncssc-,
Statements relatin!:! 10
cause or death
41. A statement is admissible when made by a person in the ordinary course of business. and
in particular when il consists of any entry or memorandum made by him in books, electronic
device kept in the ordinary course of business, or in the discharge of a professional duty, or of
an acknowledgment written or signed by him of the receipt of money, goods, securities or
property of any kind. or of a document used in commerce written or signed by him. or or the
date of a letter or other document usually dated. written or signed by him:
Provided that the maker made the statement contemporaneously with the transaction recorded
or su SOOI1 thereafter that the court considers it likely that the transaction was at that time still
fresh in his memory,
42. A statement is admissible where the maker had peculiar means of knowing the matter
stated and such statement is against his pecuniary or proprietary interest and-
(3) he had no interest to misrepresent the matter: or
(b) the statement, if true, would expose him to either criminal or civil liability,
43. (I) A statement is admissible when such statement gives the opinion of a person as to the
existence of any public right or custom or matter of general interest, the existence of which, if
it existed, the maker would have been likely to be aware.
(~) /\ statement referred to in subsection (I,l of this section shall not be admissible unless il
was made before any controversy as to such right. custom or matter. had arisen.
44. (1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section. a statement is admissible when it relates ie,
the existence of relationship by blood. marriage or adoption between persons as to whose
relationship by blood, marriage or adoption the person making the statement had special
means of knowledge,
(2) A statement referred to in subsection (1) of this section shall be admissible under the
following conditions->
(a) that it is deemed to be relevant only in a case in which the pedigree to which it
relates is in issue, and not to a case in which it is only relevant to the issue, and
(b) that it must be made by a declarant shown to be related by blood to the person to
whom it relates, or by the husband or wife of such a person:
Provided that=-
(i) a declaration by a deceased parent that he or she did not marry the other
parent until after the birth of the child is relevant to the question of the
paternity of such child upon any question arising as to the right of the child to
inherit real or personal property under any legislation; and
xuncmcnrs made i),
the course or business
Statement aguinst
interest otmakcr wuh
special knowledge
Starcmcrus 01 opuuon-,
as to public right UI
custom and maucrs or
general interest
"lilll;Il1(!1l1',I'.'i,,,i;l,
the existence or a
relationship
(ii) in proceeding fur the determination of the paternity of any person. a
declaration made by a person who. if an order were granted, would stand
towards the petitioner ill any of the relationships mentioned in paragraph (h)
of this subsection,
is deemed relevant to the question of the identity or the parents of the
petitioner; and
(c) that the statement must be made before the question in relation to which it is to be
proved had arisen. but it does not cease to be admissible because it was made for the
purpose of preventing the dispute from arising.
45. (1) The declarations of a deceased testator as to his testamentary intentions and as to the
content of his will, arc admissible when--
(a) his will has been lost and when there is question as to what were its contents: or
(b) the question is whether an existing will is genuine or was improperly obtained:
or
(c) the question is whether any and which of more existing documents than one
constitute his will.
(2) In the cases mentioned in subsection (1) of this section. it is immaterial whether the
declarations were made before or after the making or loss of the will.
4(). (I; Evidence given by a witness in a judicial proceeding, or before any person authorised
by law to take it is admissible for the purpose of proving in a subsequentjudicial proceeding.
or in a later stage of the same judicial proceeding the truth of the facts which it states. when
the witness cannot be called for any of the reasons specified in section 39. or is kept out ofthe
wav by the adverse party:
Provided that
(a) the proceeding was between the same parties or their representatives in interest:
(b) the adverse party in the first proceeding had the right and opportunity to cross￾examine; and
(c) thc questions in issue were substantially the same ill the first as in the second
proceeding.
(2) A criminal trial or inquiry shall be deemed to be a proceeding between the prosecutor and
the defendant within the meaning of this section.
Dcclaranous b~
rcsrators
.'\dllli~~ihiili>"j
vcrttur- L", ;Li":IIL'L' JPI
r'''' ;"g. m "'"""",.,,,
procccdinu. the truth
of fiU.':b slated in il
47. A statement in accordance with sections 290 and 291 or section 3J9 of the Criminal
Procedure Act. may afterwards be used in evidence on the trial of any person accused of all
offence 10 which the same relates, if the person who made the statement cannot be called for
any of the reasons specified in section 39, and if reasonable notice of the intention to take such
statement was served upon the person against whom it is to be read in evidence and he had, or
might have had, if he had chosen to be present, full opportunity of cross-examining the person
making the statement.
48. An\ statement made by a defendant at a preliminary investigation or at a coroner's
inquest may be given in evidence.
49. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law but subject to this
section, where in the course of any criminal trial, the court is satisfied that for any sufficient
reason, the attendance of the investigating police officer cannot be procured. the written and
signed statement of such officer may be admitted in evidence by the court if·,
(a) the defence does 110tobject to the statement being admitted; and
(b) the court consents to the admission of the statement.
50. In the case or a person employed in the public service of the Federation or of a State who
is required to give evidence for any purpose connected with a judicial proceeding, it shall be
sufficient to account for his non-attendance at the hearing of the said judicial proceeding if
there is produced to the court either a Federal or State Gazette or a telegram, an email or letter
purporting to emanate from the head of his department. sufficiently explaining to the
satisfaction of the court his apparent default.
51. Entries in books of accounts or electronic records regularly kept in the course of business
arc admissible whenever they refer to a matter into which the COUli has to inquire. but such
statements shall not alone be sufficient evidence to charge any person with liability.
52. An entry in any public or other official books, register or record, including electronic
record stating a fact ill issue or relevant fact and made by a public servant in the discharge of
his official duty, or by any other person in the performance of a duty specially enjoined by the
law of the country in which such book, register or record is kept, is itself admissible.
53. Statements of facts in issue or relevant facts made in published maps or charts generally
offered for public sale. or in maps or plans made under the authority of Government, as to
matters usually represented or stated in such maps. charts or plans, are themselves admissible.
54. When the court has to form an opinion as to the existence of any fact of a public nature,
any statement of it. made in a recital contained in any enactment or in any proclamation or
speech of the President in opening the National Assembly, or in any proclamation or speech.
or in any statement made in a Government or public notice appearing in the Federal Gazette or
in a State notice or a State public notice appearing in a State Gazette or the Government
Gazeue of any other country is admissible.
When snncmcnr made
under ,IllY crunuml
procedure legi.~I<llioll
mav be used in
evidence
Statement uf defendant
at prcliminarv
mvesugnuun 01
coroner's inq ucst
Admission of \\"rilll:n
starcnu ..'nls {ll
investigating police
officers in certain
cases.
Absence of public
officers
Statements ruadc in
spccin! eireullbWnccs
entries in book, (If"
account
1:n[I".1 ill flubii •...r cccurl-,
made ill pcrtnr.nancc
of duty
Sraremcms in maps.
charts and plnn-,
SllIlclllenl as 10 I,]C] 01
public nature
contained in ccn.uu
acts or nouficatinnx
Certificates ofSpecified Government Officers
55. (1) Either party to the proceeding in any criminal case may produce a certificate signed by
the Government Pharmacist, the Deputy Government Pharmacist an Assistant Government
Pharmacist, a Government pathologist or entomologist or the Accountant-General. or any
other pharmacist so specified by the Government Pharmacist of the Federation or of a Statc.
any pathologist or entomologist specified by the Director of Medical Laboratories of the
Federation or of a State, or any accountant specified by the Accountant-General or the
lcdenuion or of a Stale (whether any such officer is by that or any other title in the service or
the State or of the Federal Government), and the production of any such certificate may be
taken as sufficient evidence of the facts stated in it.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (I) of this section, any certificate issued and produced by any
officer in charge of any laboratory established by the appropriate authority may be taken as
sufficient evidence of facts stated in it.
(3) Notwithstanding subsections (I) and (2) of this section, the court shall have the power, on
the application of either party or of its own motion, to direct that any such officer as is referred
to in the subsections shall be summoned to give evidence before the court if it is of the opinion
that, either for the purpose of cross-examination or for any other reason, the interests of justice
so requires.
(4) The President may, by notice in the Feeleral Gazelle, declare that any person named in such
notice. being. an officer in the public service of the Federation employed in a forensic science
laboratorv in a rank not below that of Medical I...aboratory Tecunologist. shall. for the purposes
of subsection (I) uf this section. be empowered to sign a certificate relating to any subject
specified in the notice. and while such declaration remains in force subsection (1) or this
section shall apply in relation to such person as they apply in relation to an officer mentioned
in that subsection:
Provided that a certificate signed by such person shall not be admissible in evidence if. in the
opinion of the court. it does not relate wholly or mainly to a subject so specified as in such
notice.
(5) In this section -
"appropriate authority" means the Inspector-General of Police. the Comptroller-General of
Customs or the Minister of Health;
"officer" means any officer-in-charge ofnny laboratory established pursuant to this Act:
"specified" means specified by notice as may be published in the Federal or State Gazette.
56. Where in criminal proceedings, a certificate purports to be signed by an officer of the
Central Bank of Nigeria who himself adds after his signature the words "duly authorised by
the Governor of tho Central Bank of Nigeria" it shall be accepted by all courts and persons a,
Certificates or
specified Government
oftlccrs (0 be
sulficicnt cvidcnce in
"ll cnnunnlcascs
Certificates of centr;d
bank officers ll~
evidence in criminal
cases.
sufficient evidence of the facts stated in the certificate, and no certificate shall be questioned
on the ground only of the authorisation: but subject to this. section 55 (3) shall have effect
with regard to any such certificate.
57. Where any such certificate as is mentioned in section 55 or 56 is intended to be produced
by either party to the proceedings, a copy of it shall be served on the other party at least ten
clear days before the day appointed for the hearing and if it is not so sent the court may, if it
thinks fit. adjourn the hearing On such terms as may seem proper
5~. The COUl1 shall, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, presume that the signature to
any such certificate as is mentioned in sections 55 and 56 is genuine and that the person
signing it held the office or authority which he professed at the time when he signed it.
Judgments of Courts ofJustice
59. The existence of any judgment, order or decree which by law prevents any court from
taking cognisance of a suit or holding a trial, is a relevant fact, evidence of which is
admissible when the question is whether such court ought to take cognisance of such suit or to
hold such trial.
60. (I) A final judgment, order or decree of a competent court, in the exercise of probate.
mutrimoniai. admiralty or insolvency jurisdiction, which confers upon or takes away from any
person any legal character. or which declares any person to be entitled to any such character or
to be entitled to any specific thing, not as against any specified person but absolutely, is
admissible when the existence of any such legal character, or the title of any such legal
persons to an) such tiling, is reb-ant
(2) Such judgment. order or decree is conclusive proof-~--
taj that any legaJ character which it confers accrued at the time when such judgment,
order or decree came into operation;
(b) that any legal character. to which it declares any such person to be entitled.
accrued to that person at the time when such judgment order or decree declares it to
have accrued to that person;
(c) that any legal character which it takes away Irorn any such person ceased at the
time from which suchjudgment, order or decree declared that it had ceased or should
cease; and
(d) that anything to which it declares any person to be so entitled was the property of
that person at the time from which such judgment. order or decree declares that it had
been or should be his property,
61. Judgments, orders or decrees other than those mentioned in section 60 are admissible if
they relate to matters of a public nature relevant to the inquiry; but such judgments. orders or
Scn icc or ccruticetcs
on other party before
hearing
Genumcncss ul
certificates til be
presumed
Previous judgments
admissible to bar a
second suit or trial
Aclmixsihilirv or
certainjudgments, ill
certain jurisdictions.
t\dmissihilll> m'll
cffcct uljudgmcnt-,
other than those
decrees are not conclusive proof of that which they state.
62. Judgments, orders or decrees. other than those mentioned in sections 59,60 and 61 are
inadmissible unless existence of such judgment order or decree is a fact in issue, or is
admissible under some other provision of this or any other Act.
(j3. (l) Notwithstanding section 62. in any civil proceeding the fact that a person has been
convicted of anv offence by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be admissible for the
purpose of proving, where to do so is relevant to any issue in those proceeding that he
committed that offence. but no conviction that has been quashed on appeal by a court of
competent jurisdiction or in respect of which an appeal is pending shall be admissible in
evidence by virtue of this section.
(2) If in any civil proceeding it is proved in accordance with subsection (1) of this section that
any person has been convicted of an offence by a COUl1 of competent jurisdiction>-
(a) that person shall be presumed to have committed the offence unless he proves to
the contrary; and
(b) without prejudice to the admission of any other evidence lor the purpose of
determining the facts upon which the conviction is based, the contents of any
information, complaint or. charge sheet. according to which that person has been
convicted shall also be admissible in evidence for this purpose.
64. 1\ pan, to" suit or other proceeding may shov, that aI'Y judgment. order or decree which
is admissible under section 59,60 or 6] and which has been proved by the adverse party. \1',--<).";
delivered by a coun without jurisdiction. or was obtained by fraud or collusion.
65. 'v\'hell an action is brought against any person for anything done by him in a judicial
capacity. the judgment delivered, and the proceeding antecedent to it. arc conclusive proof of
the facts stated in such judgment. whether they arc or are not necessary to give the defendant
jurisdiction. if assuming them to be true, they show that he had jurisdiction.
Oral Evidence otTraditicn
66. Where the title to or interest in family or communal land is in issue. oral evidence of
family or communal tradition concerning such title or interest is admissible.
Opinion Evidence
Opinion Evidence Generally
67. The opinion of any person as to the existence or non-existence of a fact in issue Of
relevant to the fact in issue is inadmissible except as provided in sections 68 to 76 of this Act.
mcnuoncd in scctiou
60
Julig.IllCIlt. etc other
tl1I:111 those mentinned
in sections 59 \0 61.
when admissible
Conviction a~
evidence ill ct \ i\
procccdinp
\'nlllci or coltasion III
,\I·,t'li\1ip~·ludpncl1!_ I'd
nC)I1·.:lIri~dlcti\lil "~I
<-!lUI!. 'il'l; hc jlr,"cci
.Iudgmo.:nt c<.ii1clus;\c
in tavour l:f\lldf2c
Fcl1llily III communal
tradition admi:,;siblv In
land C<\SC~
.j!,.\
()piniol\ inadmi!-.,~ibk
""I" '" 1''''''' "Icc' '" I
Act r\
Opinions of Experts
ML When the court has to form an opinion upon a point of foreign law, customary law or
custom. or of science or art. or as to identity of handwriting or finger impressions. the
opinions upon that point of persons specially skilled in such foreign law, customary law or
custom, or science or art, or in questions as to identity of handwriting or 'finger impressions.
are admissible.
(1) Persons so specially skilled as mentioned in subsection (1) of this section are called
experts.
69. Where there is a question as to foreign law, the opinions of experts who in their
profession arc acquainted with such law are admissible evidence of it. though such experts
may produce to the court books which they declare La be works of authority upon the foreign
law in question, which books the court, having received all necessary explanations from the
expert, may construe for itself.
70. In deciding questions of customary law and custom, the opinions of traditional rulers.
chiefs or other persons having special knowledge of the customary law and custom and any
book or manuscript recognised as legal authority by people indigenous to the locality in which
such law or custom applies, are admissible.
71. Facts 110t otherwise relevant are relevant if they support or are inconsistent with the
opinions of experts, when such opinions are admissible.
Opinion of Non-Experts
72. (11 When the court has to form an opinion as to the person by whom an) document was
written or signed. the opinion of any person acquainted with the handwriting of the person b)
whom it is supposed to be written or signed that it was or was not written or signed by that
person. is admissible
(2) A person is said to be acquainted with the handwriting of another person when he has seen
that person write, or when he has received documents purporting to be written by that person
in answer to documents written by himself or under his authority and addressed to that person,
or when in the ordinary course of business, documents purporting to be written by that person
have been habitually submitted to him.
73. (1) When the court has to form an opinion as to the existence of any general custom or
right. the opinions. as to the existence of such custom or right, of persons who would be likely
to know of its existence if it existed are admissible.
(2) The expression "general custom or right" includes customs or rights common to any
considerable class of persons.
74. When the court has to form an opinion as to￾Opinions or experts.
when adnussfb!c
Opinions as to f'url.'igll
la\\
Opinions a~ \0
customary 1(1\\ and
custom
Filets bcal'in.~ UpOIl
opinions (lre"pcrl~
( tpiu inl, ,I' t"
h'''''h''''''', ,,',,"
adn;lssIDIL·.
Opinion a~III
existence of "g~IlCIill
(LiSIOn) 01 right" II'lll'lI
admissible
Opiniou-, a' II' lI~al:'J;s
and tenets . .,.,.11':11
admissible
(a) the usages and tenets of any body of men or family;
(b) the constitution and government of any religious or charitable foundation; or
(c) the meaning of words or terms used in particular districts or by particular classes
of people.
the opinions of persons having special means of knowledge on the matters specified in
this section, are admissible.
75. When the co urt has to form an opinion as to the relationship of one person to another, the
opinion expressed by conduct. as to the existence of such relationship of any person "":\10, as a
member of the family or otherwise, has special means of knowledge on the subject. is
admissible:
Provided that such opinion shall not be sufficient to prove a marriage in proceeding for a
divorce or in a petition for damages against an adulterer or in a prosecution for bigamy.
76. Whenever the opinion of any living person is admissible, the grounds on which such
opinion is based arc also admissible.
Character Evidence
77. In sections 78 to 82, the expression "character" means reputation as distinguished from
disposition, and except as mentioned in those sections, evidence may be given only of general
reputation. and not of particular acts by which reputation or disposition is shown.
Character in Civil Cases
78. In civil cases evidence of the fact that the character of any person concerned is such as h:
render probable or improbable any conduct imputed to him is inadmissible except in so far as
such character appears from facts otherwise relevant.
79. Notwithstanding section 78, in civil cases the fact that the character of any person is such
as to affect the amount of damages which he ought to receive may be given in evidence.
80. In actions for libel and slander in which the defendant does not by his defence assert the
truth of the statement complained of. the defendant is not entitled on the trial to give evidence
in chief with a view to mitigation of damages. as to the circumstances under which the libel or
slander was published. or as to the character of the plaintiff. without the leave of the judge.
unless seven days at least before the trial he furnishes particulars to the plaintiff of the matters
as to which he intends to give evidence.
Character in Criminal Proceedings
81. In criminal proceedings. evidence of the fact that a defendant is of good character is
admissible.
Opinion Oil
rclauonslup. when
admissible
Grounds of opinion
when admissible
Character defined
Il1li\iinlsc~, cv idcnc.
or character g..:ncrali>
inadmissible.
Character fl.'. aJ]i.;cting
damages
In libel and slander.
notice must lu- gi\\.~n
(11'evidence o!
character
In criminal cases
evidence \11 good
character ildlllis.\iblc
82. (1) Except as provided in this section, evidence of the fact that a defendant is of bad
character is inadmissible in criminal proceeding,
(2) The fact that a defendant is of bad character is admissible-
(a) when the bad character of the defendant is a fact in issue; or
(h) when the defendant has given evidence of his good character.
(3) A defendant may bc asked questions 10 show that he is of bad character in the
circumstances mentioned in paragraph (c) of the proviso to section 180.
(4) Whenever evidence of bad character is admissible, evidence of a previous conviction is
also admissible.
(5) In cases where subsection (4) of this section applies, the court shal1 only admit evidence of
previous convictions which are related in substance to the offence charged,
(6) Evidence ofa previous conviction shall be proved in accordance with Part XIII.
PARTY _··DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE
Admissibili), o(!Joe:II11(,11/01".1' Evidence Gcnerali,
~G. (1) In a proceeding where direct oral evidence of a fact would be admissible. an)
statement made by a person in a document which seems to establish that fact shall, on
production of the original document, be admissible as evidence of that fact if the following
conditions arc satisfied->
(a) if the maker of the statement either
(i) had personal knowledge of the matters dealt with by the statement, or
tii) where the document in question is or forms part of a record purporting to
be a con tinuous record.
made the statement (in so far as the matters dealt with by it are not within his
personal knowledge) in the performance of a duty to record information
supplied to him by a person who had, or might reasonably be supposed to
have. personal knowledge of those matters: and
(b) ifthe maker of the statement is called asa witness in the proceeding:
Provided thal the condition that the maker of the statement shall be called as a witness
need not be satisfied ifhe is dead, or unfit by reason of his bodily or mental condition to
Evidence or churactci
ottuc accused in
cruniua! proceeding
"h!I1)!ssibilit: ():
d'lClIIllL'IlI,lI': n idcncc
as ttl I:,(;IS ill issue
attend as a witness, or if he is outside Nigeria and it is not reasonably practicable to
secure his attendance, or if all reasonable efforts to find him have been made without
success.
(2) In any proceeding, the court may at any stage of the proceeding, if having regard to aJi the
circumstances of the case it is satisfied that undue delay or expense would otherwise be
caused. order that such a statement as is mentioned in subsection (I) of this section shall be
admissible as evidence or may without any such order having been made. admit such a
statement in evidence notwithstanding that -
(n) the maker of the statement is available but is not called as a witness: and
(b) the original document is not produced, if in lieu of it there is produced a copy of
the original document or of the material part of it certified to be a true copy in such
manner as may be specified in the order or as the court may approve, as the case may
be.
(3) Nothing in this section shall render admissible as evidence any statement made by a
person interested at a lime when proceedings were pending or anticipated involving a dispute
as to any fact which the statement might tend to establish.
(4) For the purposes of this section, a statement in a document shall not be deemed to have
been made by a person unless the document or the material part of it was written. made or
produced by him with his own hand. or was signed or initialed by him or otherwise recognised
bv him ill writing as one for the accuracy of which he is responsible.
(5) For the purpose of deciding whether or not a statement is admissible as evidence by virtue
of this section, the court may draw any reasonable inference from the form or contents of th.:
document in which the statement is contained, or from any other circumstances. and may, in
deciding. whether or not a person is fit to attend as a witness, act on a certificate purporting to
tie the certificate of a registered medical practitioner.
Admissibility otStatements in Documents Produced h)' Computers.
84. (]) In any proceeding a statement contained in a document produced by a computer shall
be admissible as evidence of any fact stated in it of which direct oral evidence would be
admissible. if it is shown that the conditions in subsection (2) of this section are satisfied in
relation to the statement and computer in question.
(2) The conditions referred 10 in subsection (l ) of this section are
(a) that the document containing the statement was produced by the computer during
a period over which the computer was used regularly lo store or process information
for the purposes of any activities regularly carried on over that period, whether for
profit or not by anybody, whether corporate or not, or by any individual;
Adnussibilu-, uf
statement in dfKII1J1clll
produced b:-
computers
(b) that over that period there was regularly supplied to the computer in the ordinary
course of those activities information of the kind contained in the statement or of the
kind from which the information so contained is derived;
(c) that throughout the material part of that period the computer was operating
properly or, if not, that in any respect in which it was not operating properly 01' was
out of operation during that part of that period was not such as to affect the
production of the document or the accuracy of its contents; and
(d) that the information contained in the statement reproduces 01' is derived from
information supplied to the computer in the ordinary course of those activities.
0) Where over a period the function of storing or processing information for the purposes of
any activities regularly carried on over that period as mentioned in subsection (2) (a) of this
section was regularly performed by computers, whether->
(a) by a combination of computers operating over that period;
(b) by different computers operating in succession over that period:
(c) by different combinations OJ computers operating in succession over that
period; or
(d) in any other manner involving the successive operation over that period. 1I1
whatever order. of one or more computers and one or more combinations of"
computers.
all the computers used for that purpose during that period shall be treated "lorthe purposes u!'
this section as constituting a single computer; and references in this section to a computer
shall be construed accordingly.
(4) In any proceeding where it is desired to give a statement in evidence hv virtue of this
section. a certificate -.
(a) identifying the document containing the statement and describing the manner 111
which it was produced;
(b) giving such particulars of any device involved in the production of that document
a'>may be appropriate for the purpose of showing that the document was produced
by a computer:
(b) dealing with any of the matters to which the conditions mentioned in
subsection (2) above relate, and purporting to be signed by a person occupying
a responsible position in relation to the operation of the relevant device or the
management ofthe relevant activities, as the case may be.
shall be evidence of the matter stated in the certificate: and for the purpose of
this subsection it shall be sufficient for a matter to be stated to the best of the
knowledge and belief of the person stating it.
(5) For the purposes of this section-
(a) information shall be taken to be supplied to a computer if it is supplied to it in any
appropriate form and whether it is supplied directly or (with or without human
intervention) by means of any appropriate equipment:
(b) where, in the course or activities carried on by any individual or body, information
is supplied with a view to its being stored or processed for the purposes of those
activities by a computer operated otherwise than in the course of those activities, that
information, if duly supplied to that computer, shall be taken to be supplied to it in the
course of those activities;
(e) a document shall be taken to have been produced by a computer whether it was
produced by it directly or (with or without human intervention) by means of any
appropriate equipment.
Primm]! and Secondary Documentary Evidence
85. The contents of documents may be proved either by primary or by secondary evidence.
R6. (L) Primary evidence means the document itself produced for the inspection of the court.
~2) Wherc a document has been executed in several parts. each part shall be primarv evidence
ofthe document.
(3) Where a document has been executed in counterpart. each counterpart being executed b:
one or some of the parties only. each counterpart shall be primary evidence as against the
parties executing it.
(4) Where a number of documents have all been made by one uniform process, as in the case
of printing, lithography, photography, computer or other electronic or mechanical process,
each sha}] be primary evidence of the contents of the rest; but where they are all copies of a
common original, they shall not be primary evidence of the contents of the original.
87. Secondary evidence includes->
In) certified copies given under the provisions hereafter contained in this Act:
(b) copies made from the original by mechanical or electronic processes which IJ1
themselves ensure the accuracy of the copy. and copies compared with such copies;
(c) copies made from or compared with the original:
1'1'001ofcontems ill
documents.
1)rimar~ evidence
(d) counterparts of documents as against the parties who did not execute them; and
88.
Act.
(e) oral accounts of the contents of a document given by some person who has
himself seen it.
Documents shall be proved by primary evidence except in the cases mentioned in this
N9. Secondary evidence may be given of the existence. condition or contents or a document
when
(a) the original is shown or appears to be in the possession or power-s-
(i) of the person against whom the document is sought to be proved, or
(ii) of any person legally bound to produce it, ancl when after the notice
mentioned in section 91 such person does not produce it;
(b) the existence, condition or contents of the original have been proved to be admitted
in writing by the person against whom it is proved or by his representative in interest;
(c) the original has been destroyed or lost and in the latter case all possible search has
been made for it;
(d) the original is of such a nature as n01 to be easily movable;
\2} the original is J public document within the meaning of section ]02:
(f) t;1Coriginal is a document of which a certified COP)·is permitted by this Act or b;
any other law in force in Nigeria, to be given in evidence;
(g) the originals consist of numerous accounts or other documents which cannot
conveniently be examined in court, and the fact to be proved is the general result of the
whole collection; or
(h) the document is an entry in a banker's book.
90. (I) Tne secondary evidence admissible in respect of the original documents referred to in
tile several paragraph, of section 89 is as follows->-
(a) in paragraphs (3). (c) and (d). any secondary evidence of the contents of the
document is admissible:
(b) in paragraph (b), the written admission is admissible:
(c) in paragraph (c) or (f), a certified copy of the document, but no other secondary
evidence, is admissible;
1''''0101 documents ,,,
primM) evidence
Cases ill which
sccol1d'lI~ evidence
relating III document
Nature or se\;ol1d<lr~
evidence ndnuxsib!c
under xcctinn 8lj
(d) in paragraph (g), evidence may he given as to the general result of the documents
by any person who has examined them and who is skilled in the examination of such
documents; and
(c) in paragraph (h), the copies cannot he received as evidence unless it is first be
proved that+-
(i) the book in which the entries copied were made was at the time of
making one of the ordinary books of the bank,
(ii) the entry was made in the usual and ordinary course of business,
(iii) the book is in the control and custody of the bank, which proof may be
given orally or by affidavit by an officer of the bank, and
(iv) the copy has been examined with the original entry and is correct, which
proof must be given by some person who has examined the copy with the
original entry, and may be given orally or by affidavit.
(2) "When a seaman sues for his wages he may give secondary evidence or tile ship's articles
and of any agreement supporting his case, without notice to produce the originals.
91. Secondary evidence of the contents ofthe documents referred to in section 89(a) shall not
be given unless the party proposing to give such secondary evidence has previously given to
the party in whose possession or power the document is. or to 8 legal practitioner employed b-,
such party. such notice to produce it as is prescribed by law: and if no notice to product: i.-;
prescribed by law then such notice as the court considers reasonable in the circumstances or
the casco
Provided that such notice shall n01 be required in order to render secondary evidence
admissible in any of the following cases, 0]" in any other case in which the court thinks fit 1\.)
dispense with it---
(a) when the document to be proved is itself a notice;
(b) when, from the nature of the case. the adverse party must know that he will be
required to produce it;
(c) when it appears or is proved that the adverse party has obtained possession of the
original by fraud or force:
(d) when the adverse party or his agent has the original in court: or
(c) when the adverse party or his agent has admitted the loss of the document.
Rulc-, ," co n.unv t«
produce
92. (I) The tact of any bank having duly made a return to the Central Bank, Nigerian Deposit
Insurance Corporation or Federal Inland Revenue Service may be proved in any legal
proceeding by production of a copy of its return verified by the affidavit of an office!" of the
bank. or by the production of a copy of a newspaper purporting to contain a copy of such
rerum published by the Central Bank, Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation or Federal
Inland Revenue Service, as the case may be.
(2) The Iact or any bank having been licensed under the Banks and Other Financial
Institutions Act may be proved by the production of a certificate by an officer of the bank that
it has been duly licensed under that Act.
(}) For the purpose of this section -
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Nigeria established by the Central Bank of Nigeria
Act. 2007:
"Federal Inland Revenue Service" means the Federal Inland Revenue Service established b)
Federal Inland Revenue Service Act, 2007; ane!
"Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation" means the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation
established by the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation Act.
Proof ofExecution of Documents
93. If d document is alleged to be signed or to have been written wholly or in part by an)
person. the signature or the handwriting of so much of the document as is alleged to he in that
person's handwriting must be proved to be in his handwriting.
(2) Where a rule of evidence requires a signature. or provides for certain consequences if"
document is not signed. an electronic signature satisfies that rule of law or avoids those
consequences.
(3) All electronic signature may be proved in any manner, including by showing that a
procedure existed by which it is necessary for a person, in order to proceed further with a
transaction. to have executed a symbol or security procedure for the purpose of verifying that
an electronic record is that of the person.
94. (L) Evidence that a person exists having the same name. address, business or occupation
as the maker of a document purports to have. is admissible to show that such document was
written or signed by that person.
(2) Evidence that a document exists to which the document the making of which is in issue
purports to be a reply. together wilh evidence of the making and delivery to a person of such
earlier document. is admissible to show the identity of the maker of the disputed document
with the person to whom the earlier document was delivered.
Proof that bank hll!-
made returns or been
dlll~ licensed
Cap,l~l I.Fl'. 2()Oij
Proof of signaltlrr nnd
hant\wrilin!-, :U1d
clecuonic signarurc
ldcntificauon 01
person signlllg it
doc limen I
95. (l ) Evidence that a person signed a document containing a declaration that a seal was his
seal is admissible to prove that he sealed it.
(2) Evidence that the grantor on executing any document requiring delivery expressed an
intention that it should operate at once is admissible to prove delivery.
96. (I) In any proceeding, whether civil or criminal, an instrument to the validity of which
attestauon is required by law may, instead of being proved by an attesting witness, be
proved ill the manner in which it might be proved if nu attesting witness were alive:
Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the proof of wills or other testamentary
documents.
(2) If no attesting witness is alive, an instrument to the validity of which attestation is
required by Jaw is proved by showing that the attestation of one attesting witness at least
IS in his handwriting, and that the signature of the person executing the documents is
in the handwriting of that person.
97. The admission of a party to an attested document of its execution by himself shall be
sufficient proof of its execution as against him, though it be a document required by law to be
attested,
98. (I) A person seeking to prove the due execution of a document is 110tbound to call the
party who executed the document or to prove the handwriting of such party or of an attesting
witness in any case where the person against whom the document is sought to be proved ----
(a) produces such document and claims ail interest under it in reference Lu the suhic.:
matter of the suit: or
(b) is a public officer bound by law to procure its due execution, and he has dealt with
it as a document duly executed.
(2) Nothing contained in this section shall prejudice the right of a person to put in evidence
any document in the manner mentioned in sections 89 and 90, or under section 155 of this
AcL
99. Ifthe attesting witness denies or does not recollect the execution of the document. its
execution may be proved by other evidence.
100, All attested document not required by law to be attested may be proved as if it was
unattested.
101. (I) In order to ascertain whether a signature, writing, seal or finger impression is that of
the person by whom it purports to have been written or made, any signature, writing, seal or
finger impression admitted or proved to the satisfaction of the court to have been written or
I.videncc (II sl.:allll~ ",,,I deliver', "I"
document
Proof' or instrument to
the ,"Ii'lil~ ofwhich
attcstanon IS
necessary
Admission 01
execution b., par! \(1
attested document
Cases in which ploof
ot'cxccuuon 01"01
handwriting
unncccssurv
Proof' when <lIlCSlin.l'
1-\illH.:s~ denies Iho:
C:\CCLIlIOll
Proof or document Iw1
required by 1<1\1 1(1 l1l'
uucstcd
Com pari SOli of
signature \\nllllg seal
or finger imprl':'.sillll'
with others admitted
or proved
made by that person may be compared with the one which is to be proved although that
signature, writing. seal or finger impression has not been produced or proved for any other
purpose
(2) The court may direct an) person present ill court to write word or figure or to make finger
impressions for the purpose of enabling the court to compare: the words, figures or finger
impressions so written with any word. figure or linger impression alleged to have been written
or made by such person:
Provided that where a defendant docs not give evidence he may not be so directed to 'write
such words or figures or to make finger impressions.
(3) After the final termination of the proceeding in which the court required a person to make
his finger impressions. such impressions shall be destroyed.
Public and Private Documents
102. The following documents are public documents-
(a) documents forming the official acts or records of the official acts of-----
(i) the sovereign authority,
(ii) official bodies and tribunals, or
(iii) public officers. legislative, judicial and executive. whether of Nigeria
or elsewhere: and
(b) public records kept in Nigeria of private documents.
103. All documents other than public documents are private documents.
104. (1) Every public officer having the custody of a public document which an) person has"
right to inspect shall give that person on demand a copy of it on payment of the legal Ices
prescribed in that respect. together with a certificate written at the foot of such copy that it is a
true copy of such document or part of it as the case may be.
(2) The certificate mentioned in subsection (1) of this section shall be dated and subscribed by
such officer with his namc and his official title. and shall be scaled, whenever such officer is
authorized by 13\\"to make use of a seal. and such copies so certified shall be called certified
COPJeS.
(3) An officer who. by the ordinary course of official duty, is authorized to deliver such
copies, shall be deemed to have the custody of such documents within the meaning of this
section.
Public documents
Privun- docu.ucnt.,
Leniticd ':tll)li,;~ uJ
public documents
105. Copies of documents certified in accordance with section 104111ay be produced in proof
of lhc contents of the public documents or paris of the public documents of which they purport
to be copies.
106. lhe following public documents may be proved as follows--
(a) Acts of the National Assembly, Laws of the llouse of Assembly of a State or bye￾laws of a Local Government Council, proclamations, treaties or other acts of State,
orders, notifications, nominations appointments and other official communications of
the Government of the Federation, State or Local Government in Nigeria->-
(i) which appear in the Federal Gazette or the Gazette of a State, by the
production of such Gazette, and shall be prima facie proof of any fact of a
public nature which they were intended to notify,
(ii) by a copy of the document certified by the officer who authorised or
made such order or issued such official communication.
(iii) by the records of the government departments concerned certified by
the heads of those departments respectively or by the Minister. or in respect
of matters to which the executive authority of a State or Local Government
extends by the Governor or the Chairman of the Local Government
Council. or any person nominated by such Governor or Chairman. or
(ivt by any document purporting to he printed by order of Government:
(b) the proceeding of the Senate or of the House of Representatives, by the minutes of
that body or by published Acts or abstracts. or by copies purporting to be printed by
order of Government
(e) the proceeding of a State House Assembly, by the minutes or that body or by
published Laws. or by copies purporting to be printed by order of Government:
(d) the proceeding of a Local Government Council, by the minutes of that body or hy
published bye-laws, or by copies purporting to be printed by order of the Local
Government;
(e) the Acts or Ordinances of any part of the Commonwealth, and the subsidiary
legislation made under their authority. by a copy purporting to be printed by the
Government Printer of any such country;
(f) proclamations. treaties or acts of State of any other country. by journals published
by their authority or commonly received in that country as such, or by a copy certified
under the seal of the country or sovereign;
Proof of documents b)
production ofccniflcd
cop1es
l'roof of tll her ()l'ficinl
documents
(g) books printed or published under the authority of the Government of" a foreign
country, and purporting to contain the statutes, code or other written law of such
country, and also printed and published books of reports of decisions of the courts of
such country, and books proved to be commonly admitted in such courts as evidence
of the law of such country, shall be admissible as evidence of the law of such foreign
country;
(h) any judgment, order or other judicial proceeding outside Nigeria, or any legal
document filed or deposited in any court->
l. by (1 copy sealed with the sea] of a foreign or other court to which the original
document belongs or, in the event of such court having no seal, to be signed
by the judge, or, if there be more than one judge, by anyone of the judges of
the said court, and such judge must attach to his signature a statement in
writing on the said copy that the court of which he is judge has no seal, or
11. by a copy which purports to be certified in any manner which is certified by
any representative of Nigeria to be the manner commonly in use in that
country for the certification of copies of judicial records; and
(i) public documents of any other class elsewhere than in Nigeria, by the original, or
by a copy certified by the legal keeper of such documents, with a certificate under
the seal of a notary public, or of a consul or diplomatic agent that the copy is duly
certified by the officer having the legal custody of the original, and upon proof of the
character of the document according to the law of the foreign country.
Afliduvi/,\
107. A court may. in any civil proceeding make an order at any stage of such proceeding
directing that specified facts may be proved at the trial by affidavit with or without the
attendance of the deponent for cross-examination:
Coun rnay order proof
h~ afndll\'jl
Provided that where a party desires the attendance of such deponent for cross-examination the
court shall require his attendance for that purpose where this would not result in unjustifiable
delay or expense.
lOR. Before an affidavit is used in the COUlt for any purpose, the original shall be flied in the
court. and the original or an office copy shall alone be recognised for any purpose in the court.
Affidavn to bL' ullcd
109, Any affidavit sworn before any judge, officer or other person duly authorised to lake
affidavits in Nigeria may be used in the court in all cases where affidavits are admissible.
Affidavit ~W{)1"Il ill
Nigeria
t 10. Any affidavit sworn in any country other than Nigeria beforc->-
(a) a judge or magistrate, being authenticated by the official seal of the court to
which he is attached, or by a notary public; or
Proof or document not
required b, I"" I" be
attested
(b) the duly authorised officer in the Nigerian Embassy. High Commission or
Consulate in that country may be used in the court in all cases where affidavits are
admissible.
Ill. The fact that an affidavit purports to have been sworn in the manner prescribed in the
preceding sections shall be prima facie evidence of-·
Proof ot "cal and
signature.
(a) the seal or signature, as the case may be, of any such court, judge, magistrate or
other officer or person mentioned in, or appended or subscribed to, any such
affidavit; and
(b) the authority of such court. judge. magistrate or other officer or person to
administer oaths.
112. An affidavit shall not be admitted which is proved to have been sworn before a person
on whose behalf the same is offered. or before his legal practitioner, or before a partner or
clerk of his legal practitioner.
Affidavit 1101 1(, be
sworn before certain
persons
113. The court may permit an affidavit to be used, notwithstanding that it is defective in form
according to this Act, if the COU11 is satisfied that it has been sworn before a person duly
authorised.
1\ lfidnvit dcfccuvc ill
form.
114. A defective or erroneous affidavit may be amended and re-sworn by leave of the court.
on such terms as to time. costs or otherwise as seem reasonable.
Amendment and rc￾swearing 0[" affidavu.
115. (1) Every affidavit used in the court shall contain only a statement of lucts and ('(In;~·lll~(;[-~dlld;.',i:,
circumstances to which the witness deposes. either of his own personal knowledge or Irorn
information which he believes to be true.
(7) An affidavit shall not contain extraneous matter. by way of objection. prayer or legaJ
argument or conclusion.
(J) When a person deposes to his belief in all)' matter of fact, and his belief is derived from
any source other than his own personal knowledge. he shall set forth explicitly the facts and
circumstances forming the ground of his belief.
(4) When such belief is derived from information received from another person, the name of
his informant shall be stated. and reasonable particulars shall be given respecting the
infonnant, and the time, place and circumstance of the information.
) 16. When there are before a court affidavits that are irreconcilably in con flier on crucial {ollllic(in.l' alnda\ it-,
facts. the court shall Ior the purpose of' resolving the conflict arising from the affidavit
evidence. ask the parties to proffer oral evidence as to such facts. and shall hear any such oral
evidence of the deponents of the affidavits and such other witnesses as may he called by the
parties.
Provisions in Jerking Affidavit.
117, (1) Every affidavit taken in a cause or matter shall--
(a) be headed in the court and in the cause 0)' matter:
(b) state the full name, trade or profession, residence, and nationality ofthe deponent:
and
(C) be in the first person, and divided into convenient paragraphs numbered
consecutively.
(2) Any erasure, interlineation or alteration made before the affidavit is sworn, shall be
attested by the person before whom it is taken, who shall affix his signature or initial in the
margin immediately opposite to the interlineations, alteration or erasure.
(3) Where an affidavit proposed to be sworn is illegible or difficult to read, or is in the
judgment of the person before whom it is taken so written as to facilitate fraudulent alteration,
he may refuse to swear the deponent, and require the affidavit to be re-written in an
unobjectionable manner.
(4) An affidavit when sworn shall be signed by the deponent or if he cannot write or is blind.
marked by him personally with his mark in the presence of the person before whom it is taken.
l l S, Ihe person before whom an affidavit is taken shall not allow it. when sworn. to be altered
in any manner without being re-sworn; and may refuse to allow an altered affidavit to be rc￾sworn and require instead a fresh affidavit.
119, (1) Where the deponent is illiterate or blind the affidavit shall state that fact, and shall be
accompanied with a jurat.
(2) The jurat shall
(a) be written without interlineation, alteration or erasure immediately at the foot of
the affidavit, and towards the left side of the paper. and shall be signed by the person
before whom it is taken:
(b) state the date of the swearing and the place where it is sworn:
(c) state that the affidavit was sworn before the person taking the same; and
(d) where the deponent is illiterate or blind, state such fact and shall state that the
affidavit was read over to such illiterate or blind deponent or translated into his own
language (in the case of a deponent not having sufficient knowledge of English), and
l'rovisior» as to
altered aflidil\ I'
Jurat
that he appeared to understand it.
(3) Where the deponent makes a mark instead of signing. the jurat shall state that fact, and that
the mark was made in the presence a f the person before whom it is taken.
(4) Where two or more persons join in making an affidavit their several names shall be written
in the jurat and it shall appear by the jurat that each ofthem has been sworn to the truth of the
several matters stated by him in the affidavit.
(5) Ifthe jurat has been added and signed on an altered affidavit, the person before whom it is
taker! shall add a new jurat on the affidavit being re-sworn and in the new jurat he shall
mention the alteration.
120, (I) The person before whom an affidavit may be taken may take without oath the
declaration or any person who ---
(a) affirms that the taking of any oath whatsoever IS, according to his rclig ious
belief unlawful; or
(b) by reason of immature age or want of religious belief, ought not, in the opinion
of the person taking the declaration to be admitted to make a sworn affidavit.
(2) The person taking the declaration shall record in the attestation the reason of such
declaration being taken without oath.
Proof oiFacts Generallv
121. A fact is said to bc--
(a) "proved" when, after considering the matters before it. the court either believe
it to exist or considers its existence so probable that a prudent man ought. in the
circumstances of the particular case. to act upon the supposition that it dues exist:
(b) "disproved' when, alter considering the matters before it, the court either
believes. that it does not exist or considers its non-existence so probable that a
prudent man ought, in the circumstances of the particular case. to act upon the
supposition that it does nut exist;
(c) "not proved" when it is neither proved nor disproved.
Facts which need nor he proved.
122. (1) No fact of which the court shall take judicial notice under this section needs to be
proved.
Declaration without
oath Illa~· be taken
l'roo! of Iact-,
l-aut-, 01 which COLln
must take judicia!
notice need not to
proved
i2) The court shaJltake judicial notice of--
(a) all laws or enactments and any subsidiary legislation made LInder them having the
force of law now or previously in force in any part of Nigeria;
(b) all public Acts or Laws passed or to be passed by the National Assembly or a State
House of Assembly. as the case may be, ancl all subsidiary legislation made under
them and all local and personal Acts or Laws directed by the National Assembly or a
State House Assembly to be judicially noticed:
(c) the course of proceeding ofthe Notional Assembly and of the Houses of Assembly
of the States of Nigeria;
(d) the assumption of office of the President, a State Governor or Chairman of a Local
Government Council. and of any seal used by any such public officer:
(e) the seals of all the courts of Nigeria. the seals of notaries public. and all seals
which any person is authorised to use by any Act of the National Assembly or other
enactment having the force of law in Nigeria;
(f) the existence, title and national flag of every State or sovereign recognised by
Nigeria:
(g) the divisions of time. the geographical divisions of the world, the public festivals.
lusts and holidays notified in the Federal Gazette or fixed by an Act:
lil) the territories within the Commonwealth;
(i) the commencement. continuance and termination of hostilities between the Federal
Republic of Nigeria anci any other State or body of persons:
0) the names of the members and officers of the court and of their deputies anJ
subordinate officers and assistants. and also of all officers acting in execution of it.s
process, and of all legal practitioners and other persons authorised by law to appear or
act before it;
(k] the rule of the road on land or at sea:
(I) all general customs. rules and principles which have been held to have the Coree of
law in any court established by or under the Constitution and all customs which have
been duly certified to and recorded in any such court; and
(Ill) the course of proceeding and all rules of practice in force in any court established
by or under the Constitution.
t3) In all cases in subsection (2) of this section and also on all matters of public history.
literature. science or art. the court may resort for its aid to appropriate books or documents or
reference.
(4) If the court is called upon by any person to take judicial notice of any fact it may refuse to
do so unless and until such person produces any such book or document, as it may consider
necessary to enable it to do so.
123. No fact needs to be proved in any civil proceeding which the parties to the proceeding
or their agents agree to admit at the hearing. or which, before the healing, they agree to admit
by any writing under their hands, or which by any rule or pleading in force at the time they arc
deemed to have admitted by their pleadings:
Provided that the court may, in its discretion, require the facts admitted to be proved otherwise
than by such admissions.
124. (I) Proof shall not be required of a fact the knowledge of which is not reasonably open
to question and which is --
(a) common knowledge in the locality in which the proceeding is being held, or
generally, or
(b) capable of verification by reference to a document the authority of which cannot
reasonably be questioned.
(2) The court may acquire. in any manner it deems fit. knowledge of a fact to which
subsection (11 of this section refers. and shall take such knowledge into account.
(3) The court shall give to a party to any proceeding such opportunity to make submission.
and to refer to a relevant information. in relation to the acquiring or taking into account of
such knowledge, as is necessary to ensure that the party is not unfairly prejudiced.
PART Vll-- ORAL EVIOENG. AND THE INSPECTION OF REAL EVIOENCFc
125. All facts. except the contents of documents, may be proved by oral evidence.
126. Subject to the provisions of Part Ill, oral evidence shall. in all cases whatever. be direct
ifit refers to v-
(a) a fact which could be seen, it must be the evidence of a witness who says he saw
that fact:
(b) to a fact which could be heard, it must be the evidence of a witness who says he
heard that fact:
(c) to a Iact which could be perceived by any other sense or in any other manner. it
must be the evidence of a witness who says he perceived that fact by that sense or in
lucts admitted need t«
be proved
l·a(';ISor common
knowledge need not he
proved
Prout ollncb b) {ora:
evidence
Oral evidence 11111-"l be
direct
that manner;
(d) ifit refers to an opinion or to the grounds 011 which that opinion is held. it must be
the evidence of the person who holds that opinion on those grounds:
Provided that the opinions of experts expressed in any treatise commonly offered for
sale, and the grounds on which such opinions are held, may be proved by the
production of such treatise if the author is dead or cannot be found, or has become
incapable of giving evidence, or cannot be called as a witness without an amount of
delay or expense which the court regards as unreasonable.
]27. (I) Ifora! evidence refers to the existence or condition of any material thing other than a
document, the court may. if it deems fit-
(a) require the production of such material thing for its inspection. or
(b) inspect an)' moveable or immovable property the inspection of which may be
material to the proper determination of the question in dispute.
(2) When an inspection of property under this section is required to be held at a place outside
the courtroom, the court shall eithcr->-
(a) be adjourned to the place where the subject-matter of the said inspection may be
and the proceeding shall continue at that place until the court further adjourns back
to its original place of sitting, or to some other place of sitting; or
(b) attend and make an inspection of the subject-matter only. evidence. if any. (..'II"
what transpired there being given in court afterwards. and if) either case the
defendant if an)'. shall be present.
PART VlII-- EXCLUSION OF ORAL BY DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE
128. ()) When a judgment of a court or any other judicial or official proceeding. contract \u￾any grant or other disposition or property has been reduced to the form of a document or series
or documents. no evidence may be given of such judgment or proceeding or of the terms of
such contract. grant or disposition of property except the document itself, or secondary
evidence of its contents in cases in which secondary evidence is admissible under this Act: nor
may the contents of any such document be contradicted, altered, added to or varied by oral
evidence:
Provided thai any of the following, matters may be proved--
(<1) traud, intimidation, illegality: want of due execution, the fact that it is wrongly
dated. existence or want 01' failure, of consideration. mistake in fact or law: want of
capacity in any contracting party, or the capacity in which a contracting party acted
when it is not inconsistent with the terms of the contract, or any other matter which, if
lnspccuon \\l!CI1 orul
evidence refers 10 1"1:<11
evidence
Evidence ottcnu-. II;
.lUdgnwllb. conuacts.
p.mnl:-. and othrt
dispu~itil)n:-; 01
property reduced !(, ,I
documcntarv [iml1
proved. would produce any effect upon the validity of any document, or of any part of
it. or which would entitle any person to any Judgment, decree, or order relating to it;
(b) the existence of any separnte oral agreement as to any matter on which a document
is silent, and which is not inconsistent with its terms, if from the circumstances of the
case the court infers that the parties did not intend the document to be a complete and
final statement or the whole of the transaction between them;
(c) the existence of any separate oral agreement, constituting a condition precedent to
the attaching of any obligation under any such contract, grant or disposition of
property:
(d) the existence of any distinct subsequent oral agreement to rescind or modify any
such contract, grant or disposition of property; and
(e) any usage or custom by which incidents not expressly mentioned in any contract
are annexed to contracts of that description; unless the annexing of such incident to
such contract would be repugnant to or inconsistent with the express terms of the
contract.
(2) Oral evidence of a transaction is not cxcl uded by the fact that a documentary memorandum
of it was made, if such memorandum was not intended to have legal effect as a contract, grant
or disposition of property.
(3) Oral evidence of the existence of a legal relationship is not excluded by the fact that it has
been created by a document when the fact to be proved is the existence of the relationship
itself. and no: the terms on which it was established or is carried on.
12<). (1) Evidence may be given to show the meaning of illegible or not commonly intelligible
characters of foreign, obsolete. technical, local and provincial expressions, of abbreviations
and words used in a peculiar sense.
(2) E:vidence may not be given to show that common words, the meaning of which is plain.
and which do not appear hum the context to have been used in a peculiar sense. were in fact
so used.
(3 ) If the words of a document arc so defective or ambiguous as to be unmeaning. no evidence
can be given to show what the author ofthe document intended to say,
(4) In order 10 ascertain the relationship or the words ofa document to facts. every fact may be
proved to which it refers, or may probably have been intended to refer. or which identifies any
person or thing mentioned in it; and such facts are in this section called the circumstances of
the casco
(5) If the words of a document have a proper legal meaning. and also a less proper meaning,
they shall be deemed to have their proper legal meaning, unless such a construction would be
l.vidcncc ~~s11)
intcrprctutinn I)l'
documents
unmeaning in reference to the circumstances of the case, 111 which case they may be
interpreted according to their less proper meaning.
(6) Ifthe document has one distinct meaning in reference to the circumstances of the casco it
shall be construed accordingly, and evidence to show that the author intended to express some
other meaning is not admissible.
(7) If' the document applies in part but not with accuracy or not completely to the
circumstances of the case, the .court may draw inferences from those circumstances as to the
mcani ng of the document whether there arc more than one or only one thing or person to
whom Of 10 which the inaccurate description may equally well apply; and in such cases no
evidence can be given of statements made by the author of the document as to his intentions in
reference to the matter to which the document relates. though evidence may he given as to his
circumstances, and as to his habitual use oflanguage or names for particular persons or things.
(81 If the language ofthe document, though plain in itself. applies equally well to marc objects
than one. evidence may be given both of the circumstances of the case and of statements made
by any party to the document as to his intentions in reference to the matter to which the
document relates.
(9) If the document is of such a nature that the court will presume that it was executed with
any other than its apparent intention, evidence may be given 10 show that it was in fact
executed with its apparent intention.
130. (1) Sections 128 and 129 apply only to parties to documents, and their representatives in
interest. and only to cases in which some civil right or civil liability is dependent upon the
terms of a document in question.
(2"; A person other than a party to a document or his representative in interest may,
notwithstanding the existence of any document, prove any fact which he is otherwise entitled
to prove'
(3 j A pm1y to any document or any representative ill interest of any such party may prove any
such fact for any purpose other than that of varying or altering any right or liability depending
upon the terms ofthe document.
(4) Nothing contained in this Part shall be taken to affect any of the provisions of any
enactment as to the construction of wills.
PART IX --- PRODUCTION AND EFFECT or EVtDENCi:
131. (I) Whoever desires any court to give judgment as to any legal right or liability
'pplicall"O olthi,
iJaq
13X. (I) The burden 0 I'proving any fact necessary to be proved in order to
(a) enable a person to adduce evidence of some otherfact; or
(b) prevent the opposite party from adducing evidence of some other fact. lies on the
person who wishes to adduce, or to prevent the adduction of such evidence,
respectively.
(2) The existence or non-existence of facts relating to the admissibility of evidence under this
section is to he determined by the court.
13Y. (I) Where a person is accused of any offence. the burden of proving the existence of
circumstances bringing the case within any exception or exemption from, or qualification 10,
the operation of the law creating the offence with which he is charged is upon such person.
(2) The hurd en of proof placed by this Part upon a defendant charged with a criminal offence
shall be deemed to be discharged if the court is satisfied by evidence given by the prosecution,
whether on cross-examination or otherwise, that such circumstances in fact exist.
(3) Nothing in sections 135 and 140 or in subsection (I) or (2) of this section shall--
(a) prejudice or diminish in any respect the obligation to establish by evidence
according to law any acts, omissions or intentions which arc legally necessary to
constitute the offence with which the person accused is charged:
(b) impose on the prosecution the burden of proving that the c iicumstances or fact:;
described in subsection (2) of this section do not exist; or
(cJ affect the burden placed on a defendant to prove a defence of intoxication or
insanity
140. When a fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving
that fact is upon him.
141. Any exception, exemption, proviso, excuse, qualification .. whether it does or does not
accompany in the same section the description of the offence in the legislation creating the
offence, may be proved by the defendant. provided that the prosecution is not required to
specify or refute any of the exceptions mentioned in this section and ifspecified or denied, no
proof in relation to the matter so specified or denied shall be required on the part of the
prosecution.
142. When the question is whether persons are partners. landlord and tenant. or principal and
agent and it has been shown that they have been acting as such, the burden of proving that
they do not stand. or have ceased to stand to each other in those relationships respectively, is
on the person who affirms it.
Burden or pHIl ill~ I<Il'\
'''""'''''' \0 be prnv cd
to make evidence
admissible
Burden ulptuof in
criminal cases
\';t)"r oj lilt l\
espcciatl , within
i-:nnwlcdb"·
Exccptions need nOI
he proved b:
prosecution
Burden ufproulus to
relationship in tho: I.:(LSl'
or partners. lnndklr,l
and tenant. principa:
and agent
143. When the question is whether any person is owner of anything of which he is shown to
be in possession, the burden of proving that he is not the owner i:'i on lhe person who affirms
that he is not the owner.
144. Where there is a question as to the good faith of [I transaction between patties, one of
whom stands to the other in a position of active confidence, the burden of proving the good
faith of the transaction is on the party who is in a position of active confidence"
PART X "-"" PRI~SUMPTlONS AND ESTOPPEL
Rule (IS In Presumptions"
] 45. (I) Whenever it is provided by this Act that the court may presume a fact. it may either
regard such fact as proved unless and until it is disproved, or may call for proof ofit.
r:n Whenever it is directed hy this Act that the court shall presume a fact, it shall regard such
Iac: as proved unless and until it is disproved.
(3) When ant' fact is declared by this Act to be conclusive proof of another, the court shall, on
proof of the one fact, regard the other as proved and shall not allow evidence to be given for
the purpose of disproving it.
Rule as 10 Presumptions
146. (! I The COUlt shall presume every document purporting to be a certificate, certified COP)
or other document. which is by" law declared to be admissible as evidence of any particular
tact and which purports to be duly certified by any officer in Nigeria who is duly authorised in
that behalf to be genuine. provided that such document. is substamiall, in tht' form 2.nd
purports to be executed in the manner directed by law in that behalf.
(2.) The court shall also presume that any officer by whom any such document purports to b.::
signed or certified held, when he signed it. the official character which he claims in such
document.
147. Whenever any document is produced before any court, purporting to be a record or
memorandum of the evidence, or of any part of the evidence, given by a witness in a judicial
proceeding or before any officer authorised by law to take such evidence or to he ,1 statement
0;" confession by any prisoner or defendant. taken in accordance with law, and purporting to be
signed by any judge or magistrate or bv any such officer as mentioned in this section. the court
shall presume that
(a) the document is genuine:
(b) any statement as to the circumstances in which it was taken. purporting to he
made by the person signing it, are true: and
Burdell t1! prootrc, to
ovncrshlp
Proof" of good fuuh III
transactiou-, where U1\\"
porty i"~in relation 01'
active confidence
Rule- a-. \(,
ple""\lnlplitln"~h~ the
court.
Pn':::;lIllljlll()1l ,l~ u
gcnllil1~nC"s~l)l
l:c;"li!-lcd ccpic.,
Presumption as tr
dm:lIl11C!lts prmloccc!
a~ record 0r l'\ i~icnl."\.'
(c) such evidence. statement or confession was duly taken.
148. The Court shall presume the genuineness of every document purporting to be-
(a) the Official Gazette of Nigeria or of a Stale:
(b) the Official Gazette of any country other than Nigeria;
(c) a newspaper or journal;
(dl 1\ copy of the resolutions of the National Assembly or Iiousc of Assembly of a
State, printed by the Government Printer; or
(c) a cop)' of a document directed by any law to be kept by any person, if such
document is kept substantially in the form required by law and is produced from
proper custody.
149. When any document is produced before any court purporting to be a document which by
the lavv in force for the time being in any country other than Nigeria would be admissible in
proof of any particular in any court of justice in that country, without proof of the seal or
stamp or signature authenticating it, or of the judicial or official character claimed by the
person by whom it purports to be signed. the court shall presume--
(a) that such seal, stamp or signature, is genuine: and
(b) that the person signing it held. at the time when he signed ii. the judicial o￾onlcial character which he claims. and the document shall be admissible for the
same purpose for which it would be admissible in the country where the document
is produced.
150. Ihe court shall presume that ever) document purporting to be a power of attorney. and
to have been executed before and authenticated by a notary public or any court, judge.
magistrate, consul or representative of Nigeria or, as the case may be, of the President. was so
executed and authenticated.
J 51. (1) All maps or charts made under the authority of any Government. or of any public
municipal body. and 110t made for the purpose of any proceeding. shall he presumed to be
correct. and shall be admitted in evidence without further proof.
(2) Where maps or charts so made arc reproduced by printing, lithography, or other
mechanical or electronic process. all such reproductions purporting to be reproduced under the
authority which made the origiuai» shall be admissible in evidence without further proof.
J 52. The court may presume that any book to which it may refer lor information on matters
of public or general interest. the statements of which arc relevant facts and which is produced
for its inspection was written and published by the person, and at the time and place by whom
Presumption as to
gazelte~. lll:\\ spaper~
Acts of the Natiunul
A,,,,,,h[, und other
documents
Presumption as 10
document admissible
ill other countries
\\ithout proof of seal
or signaunc
Prcsompuon as II)
powers 0("a\torl;~'~
t'rcsumpuon as \0
pllblk maps lind
chnrl.-;
l'rcsumpuon u-, w
books
or at which it purports to have been written or published.
15J. (1) The court may presume that a message forwarded 11'0111 a telegraph office to the
person to whom such message purports to be addressed corresponds with a message delivered
Ior transmission at the office from which the message purports to be sent: but the court shall
not make any presumption as to the person by whom such message was delivered for
transmission.
(2) The court may presume that on electronic message forwarded by the originator through an
electronic mail server to the addressee to whom the message purports to be addressed
corresponds with the message as fed into his computer lor transmission: but the court shall not
make any presumption as to the person to whom such message was sent.
154. The court :;hall presume that every document calJed for and not produced after notice to
produce given under section 91, was attested, stamped and executed in the manner required by
law.
155. Where any document purporting or proved to be 20 years old or more is produced from
any custody which the court in the particular case considers proper, the court may presume
tlk'1t the signature and every other part of such document which purports to be ill the
handwriting of any particular person is in that person's handwriting, and in the case of a
document executed or attested, that it was duly executed and attested by the persons by whom
it purports to be executed and attested.
156. Documents arc said to be in proper custody within the meaning of sections 148 to J 55
"ftim Act ifthey arc in the place in which. and under the carc of the person with whom. the ,
would naturul+, he, but no custody is improper ifit is proved tt) have had a legitimate origin.
or if the circumstances of the particular case are such as to render such an origin probable.
157. When any document bearing a date has been proved, it is presumed to have been made
on the date it bears and if more documents than one bear date on the same date. they are
presumed to have been executed in the order necessary to effect the object for which they
were executed, but independent proof of the correctness of the date will be required if HK'
circumstances arc such that collusion as to the date might be practised. and would. if practised.
injure any person or defeat the objects of any law'.
158. When any document is not produced after clue notice to produce. and after being called
for, it. is presumed to have been duly stamped unless it is shown to have remained unstamped
fc,r some time after its execution.
159. When any document purporting to be. and stamped as, a deed, appears or is proved to
he or to have been signed and duly attested, it is presumed to have been scaled and delivered
although no impression of a seal appears on it.
Presumption <IS III
telegraphic .'lnc!
electronic Illessagc~,
Presumption as 10 lim'
execution 0 I
documents not
produced.
Presumption as to
handwriting etc. \11
documents 1\\<:1;(:-
years old.
Proper ClIS\()(\.'
dei"ll1ed
I'I'CSIlJUptio;-, ,1'-I" (j'll,·
01 documcnr.,
I'IC.'-;lIIllpli(ll1 <I,. HI
stamp nfn document
Prcsul11ption ib to
scaling f111d dcliv crv
160. (I) No person producing any document which upon its face appears to have been aitcrcd
in a material part can claim under it the enforcement of any right created by it, unless the
alteration was made before the completion of the document or with the consent of the party to
he charged under it or his representative in interest.
OJ Subsection (J) of this section shall extend to cases in which the alteration was made by a
stranger. whilst the document was in the custody oi the person producing it, but without his
knowledge or leave.
(3) Alterations and intcrlincations appearing on the face of a deed arc in the absence of" all
evidence relating to them presumed to have been made before the deed was completed
(.:Ii Alterations and interlincations appearing on the face of a will are, in the absence of all
evidence relating to them, presumed to have been made after the execution of the will.
(51 There is no presumption as to the time when alterations and interlineations appearing on
the face or writings not LInder seal were made except that it is presumed that they were so
made that the making would not constitute an offence.
(6) An alteration is said to be material when, if it had been made with the consent of the party
charged, it would have affected his interest or varied his obligations in any manner
whatsoever.
(7) An alteration which in no way affects the rights of the parties or the legal effect of the
instrument is immaterial.
[61. The persons expressed to be parties 10 i:1ll)" conveyance or instrument relating to an
interest in land shall, until the contrary is proved, be presumed to be of full age at the date of
the conveyance or instrument.
162. Recitals. statements, and descriptions of facts, matters, and parties contained in deeds,
instruments, Acts of the National Assembly, or statutory declarations 20 years old or more at
the date of the contract in which such deed, instrument or other document is sought to be
relied upon shall, unless and except so far as they may be proved to be inaccurate. be taken to
be sufficient evidence of such facts. matters and descriptions.
163, (I) In favour of a purchaser. a deed shall be deemed to have been duly executed by a
body corporate if its seal is affixed to the deed in the presence of and attested by its clerk.
secretary or other permanent officer or his deputy, and a member of the board of directors,
council or other governing body of the corporation.
(2) Where a seal purporting to be the seal of a corporation has been affixed to a deed. attested
by persons purporting to be persons holding such offices as are mentioned in subsection (I) of
this section, the deed shall be deemed to have been executed in accordance with the
requirements of this section, and to have taken effect accordingly,
l)reSlll~lpIIO\1u-.tu
ililernali\e
i':·'·'ltIllFIlor. :1> \•• ,E·.'
0\ p;lrllL"~ It' .,
.:PI" c~ancc 'll
IIlSlrll1l1elll
Prcsumpnon <I~;10
statements in
documents \welll>
yo,;,1rs old
l'rcsununion n-,II'
deeds Orl:\lllloralilll1
Other Presumptions
164. II) A person shown not to have been heard of for 7 years by those, if any, who if he had
been alive would naturally have heard of him, is presumed to be dead unless the circumstances
of the case are such as to account for his not being heard of without assuming his death; but
there is no presumption as to the time when he died, and the burden of proving his death at
any particular time is upon the person who asserts it.
(2) For the purpose of determining title to property where two or more persons have died in
circumstances in which it is uncertain which survived the other they are presumed to have
died in order of seniority,
(3) There is no presumption as to the age at which a person died who is shown to have been
alive at a given time,
165. Without prejudice to section 84 of the Matrimonial Causes Act, where a person was
born during the continuance of a valid marriage between his mother and any man, or within
280 days after dissolution of the marriage, the mother remaining unmarried, the court shall
presume that the person in question is the legitimate child of that man,
166. When. in any proceeding whether civil or criminal, there is a question as to whether a
man or woman is the husband or wife under Islamic or Customary law, of a party to the
proceeding the court shall, unless the contrary is proved, presume the existence of a valid and
subsisting marriage between the two persons where evidence is given to the satisfaction of the
court. of cohabitation as husband and wife by such man and woman.
167. The court may presume the existence of any fact which it deems likely to have
happened, regard shall be had to the comrnon course of natural events, human conduct and
public and private business, in their relationship to the facts of the particular case, and in
particular the court may presume that-
(a) a man who is in possession of stolen goods soon after the theft is either the thie:
or has received the goods knowing them to be stolen, unless he can account for his
possession;
(b) a thing or state of things which has been shown to be in existence within a
period shorter than that within which such things or states of things usually cease
to exist, is still in existence;
(e) the common course of business has been followed in particular cases:
(d) evidence which could be and is not produced would. if produced, be
unfavourable to the person who withholds it; and
(e) when a document creating an obligation is in the hands of the obligor. the
obligation has been discharged,
Presumption of death
from seven years
nbsence [lnd other
facts
Presumption of
legitimacy.
Cap. M7. Lr-N. 2004
Presumption or
marriage.
COIlr! may presume
'::XiSlt:I1CC of certain
facts
168. (1) When any judicial or official act is shown to have been done in a manner
substantially regular. it is pres Limed that formal requisites for its validity were complied with.
(2) When i1 is shown that a person acted in a public capacity, it is presumed that he had been
duly appointed and was entitled so to act.
{3) When a person ill possession of any property is shown to be entitled to the beneficial
ownership or it. there is a presumption that every instrument has been executed which it was
the kgai duly of his trustees to execute in order to perfect his title.
(4) When a minute is produced purporting to be signed by the chairman of a company
incorporated under the Companies and Allied Matters Act and purporting to be a record of
proceeding al a meeting of the company or of its directors it is presumed, until the contrary is
shewn. that such meeting was duly held and convened and that all proceeding at the meeting
have been duly had, and that all appointments of directors, managers ancl liquidators are valid.
Estoppel
169. When one person bas, either by virtue or an existing court judgment deed or agreement,
or by his declaration. act or omission, intentionally caused or permitted another person to
believe a thing to be true and to act upon such belief neither he nor his representative in
interest shall be allowed. in any proceeding between himself and such person or such person's
representative ill interest. to deny the truth of that thing.
170. Nc tenant of immovable property or person claiming through such tenant shall. dming
the continuance of the tenancy, be permitted to deny that the landlord of such tenant had at the
beginning of the tenancy a title to such immovable property; and 110 person who came upon
any immovable property by the licence of the person in possession of it shall be permitted to
den) that such person had a title to such possession at the time when such licence was given
171. No bailee, agent or licensee is permitted to deny thai the bailor, principal or licensor.
by whom any goods were entrusted to any of them respectively. was entitled to those goods at
the 1ime when they were so entrusted:
Provided that the bailee, agent or licensee may show that he was compelled to deliver up any
such goods to some person who had a right to them as against his bailor, principal or licensor.
or that his bailor. principal or licensor wrongfully and without notice to the bailee. agent 0)'
licensee. obtained the goods Irorn a third person who has claimed them from such bailee.
agent or licensee.
172. Every Act oflading in the hands of a consignee or endorsee for valuable consideration.
rcprcsentinp goods to have been shipped on board a vessel, is conclusive proof of that
shipment as against the master or other person signing the same, notwithstanding that some
goods or some part of them may not have been so shipped, unless such holder of the Act of
Presumptions or
Icglllnri\~ and ol dccd-,
\0 complete [jlk
IAoppc\
l.stoppcl oftcmuu: <111\1
of Iiccnscc (;( po.:l,.,)11
111 POSSCSSlOll
1',Sloppel 01 bailc,'
agcru and licensee
Estoppel ()I pcrxun
signill.gAct d-Iadill~
Jading had actual notice at the time of receiving the same that the goods had not been in fact
laden on board:
Provided that the master or other person so signing may exonerate himself in respect of such
misrepresentation by showing that it was caused without any default on his part. and wholly
by the fraud ofthe shipper or of .the holder or some person under whom the holder holds.
173. Every judgment is conclusive proof as against parties and privies. of facts directly in
issue in the cast'. actually decided by the court. and appearing from the judgment itself to be:
the ground on which it was based; unless evidence was admitted in the action in which the
judgment was delivered which is excluded in the action in which that judgment is intended to
be proved.
174. ()) If a judgment is not pleaded by way of estoppel it is as between parties and privies
deemed to be a relevant fact, whenever any matter, which was or might have been decided in
the action in which it was given, is in issue, or is deemed to be relevant to the issue in any
subsequent proceeding.
(2) Such judgment is conclusive proof of the facts which it decides, or might have decided, if
the party who gives evidence of it had no opportunity of pleading it as an estoppel.
PART Xl - WITNESSES
Competence and Compellability of Will1esses Generally
] 75. (II All persons shall be competent to testify. unless the court considers that they are
prevented from understanding the questions put to them. or from giving rational answers to
those questions. b) reason oftcnder years. extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind,
or any other cause ofthe same kind.
(2) A person of unsound mind is not incompetent to testify unless he is prevented by his
mental infirmity from understanding the questions put to him and giving rational answers to
them,
176. (J J A witness who is unable to speak may give his evidence in any other manner in
which he can make it intelligible, as by writing or by signs: but such writing must be written
and the signs made ill open court.
(2) Evidence so given shall be deemed to be oral evidence,
] 77. A banker or an officer of a bank or other financial institution shall not, in any legal
proceeding to which the bank or financial institution is not a party. be compellable to produce
any banker's book or financial book. the contents of which can be proved in the manner
provided in sections 89 and 90 of this Act, or to appear as a witness to prove the matters,
transactions and accounts recorded in such book, unless by order of the court made for special
cause.
.ludpmcut conclusive
tlr[ilcl~ r(lnnin~
ground Ul'jlldglllCll1
LIke! ofjudgment nol
pleaded as cstoppc l
Cases in which h,llIhl'l
or officers
rcprcscnlill~' tllilel
financial iIlSliluli(ln~
not compcllabtc to
prod lice btlOhS
178. Subject to the exception applicable by virtue of section 1650f this Act, in all civil
proceeding the parties to the suit and the husband or wife of any party to the suit shall be
competent witnesses.
179. Subject to this Part, in criminal cases. the defendant. his wire 01' her husband. as the
case may be, or any person jointly charged with such defendant and tried at the same time, and
the wire or husband of the person so jointly charged. is competent 10 testify.
180. Lvery person charged with an offence shall be a competent witness for the defence at
ever), stage of the proceeding whether the person so charged is charged solely or jointly with
any other person:
Provided that ---
(a) a person so charged shall not be called as a witness in pursuance of this section
except upon his own application;
(b) a person charged and being a witness in pursuance of this section may be asked
any question in cross-examination notwithstanding that it would tend to incriminate
him as to the offence charged;
(e) when the only witness to the facts of the case called by the defence is the person
charged he shall be called as a witness immediately after the close of the evidence for
the prosecution;
td) every defendant called as a witness in pursuance of this section shall, unless
otherwise ordered by the court, give his evidence from the witness box or other place
from which the other witnesses give their evidence;
(e) nothing i" this section shall affect the right of the person charged to make a
statement without being sworn:
(f) in cases where the right of reply depends upon the question, whether evidence has
been called for the defence. the fact that the person charged has been called as a
witness shall not of itself confer on the prosecution the right of reply: and
(g) a person charged and called as a witness in pursuance of this section shall not be
asked. and if asked, shall not be required to answer, any question tending to show that
he has committed or been convicted of or been charged with any offence other than
that with which he is then charged. or is 01"bad character unless-
(i) the proof that he has committed or been convicted of such other offence
is admissible evidence to show that he is guilty of the offence with which he
Punics \0 civ il suit-,
illHllheir wive ....ur
husbands
rornpctcncc in
criminal ClISt:S
Competence ol·pt:rsllll
charged In !,-l\l
evidence
is then charged. or
(ii) he has personally or by his legal practitioner asked questions of the
witnesses for the prosecution with a view to establish his own good
character or has given evidence of his good character. or the nature or
conduct or the defence is such as to involve imputations on the prosecutor or
the witnesses for the prosecution, or
(iii) he has given evidence against any other person charged with the same
offence.
181. In any criminal proceeding, where a defendant has not given evidence, the court.
prosecution or any other party to the proceeding may comment on the failure of the defendant
to give evidence but the comment shall not suggest that the defendant failed to do so because
he was, or that he is, goilty of the offence charged,
182, (I) Whcn a person is charged --
(a) with an offence under sections 217, 218, 219, 221, 222, 223, 224, 225, 226,
231, 300, 30], 340, 341, 357 to 362, 369, 370, or 371 of the Criminal Code;
(b) subject to section 36 of the Criminal Code with an offence against the property
of his wife or her husband: or
(c) with inflicting violence on his wife or her husband,
the wife or husband of the person charged shall be a competent and
compellable witness for the prosecution or defence without the consent of the
person charged,
(2) When a person is charged with an offence other than one of those mentioned in subsection
(1) of this section. the husband or wife of such person is a competent and compellable witness
but only upon the application of the person charged,
(3) Nothing in this section shall make a husband compellable to disclose any communication
made to him by his wife during the marriage or a wife compellable to disclose any
communication made to her by her husband during the marriage.
(4) The failure of the wife or husband ofany person charged with an offence tu give evidence
shall not be made the subject of any comment by the prosecution,
183. No one is bound to answer any question if the answer to it would, in the opinion of the
court. have a tendency to expose the witness or the wife or husband of the witness to any
criminal charge, or to any penalty or forfeiture which the judge regards as reasonably likely to
be preferred or sued for:
Provided tha1--
Comment on fiulurc
by defendant 1(1l-"i\1:
evidence
Evidence h> husband
or wife. when
compellable.
Witness nul \(1 be
compellable III
incriminate himsell
(a) a person charged with an offence. and being a witness in pursuance of section
J 80 may be asked and is bound to answer any question in cross-examination
notwithstanding that it would tend to incriminate him as to the offence charged:
(b) no one is excused from answering any question only because the answer n1(1)
establish, or tend to establish that he owes a debt or is otherwise liable to any civil
suit either at the instance of the Federal, State, or Local Government or any other
person;
(c) nothing contained in this section shall excuse a witness at any inquiry by
direction of the Auomcy-General of the Federation, or of the Attorney-General of
a Slate. under Pm1 49 of the Criminal Procedure Act from answering any question
required to be answered under section 458 of that Act.
Compellability as (0 Production ofDocuments
184. No witness who is not a patty to a suit shall be compelled to produce his title-deeds to
any property or any document by virtue of which he holds any property as pledge or
mortgagee or any document the production of which might tend to incriminate him, unless he
has agreed in writing to produce them with the person seeking the production of such deeds or
some person through whom he claims.
185. No one shall be compelled to produce documents in his possession which any other
person would be entitled to refuse to produce if they were in his possession, unless such last
mentioned person consents to their production.
Competency in P}'oceedil1g Reiculng 10 Aduhetv
186. The parties to any proceeding instituted in consequence of adultery and the husbands
and wives of the parties shall be competent to give evidence in the proceeding. but no witness
in any such proceeding whether a party to them or not. shall be liable to be asked or bound to
answer any question tending to show that he or she has been guilty of adultery. unless he or
she has already given evidence in the same proceeding in disproof of the alleged adultery.
Privileged Communications
Communications during Marriage
187. No husband 01' wife shall be compelled to disclose any communication made to him 01'
her during marriage by any person to whom he or she is or has been married nor shall he or
she be permitted to disclose any such communication, unless the person who made it. or that
person's representative in interest, consents, except in suits between married persons. or
proceeding in which one married person is prosecuted for an offence specified in section 182
(1) of this Act.
Cap ("II LFN. 2UO·1
Production of title
deeds or other
documents or witness
1l1111lpml)
Production of
documents which
another person could
refuse to product:'.
l.videncc by SPOtIS': a~
10 adultery
Comrnunicntious
during mnrrtngc.
ISS, No Justice, Judge, Grand Kadi or President of a Customary Court or Appeal and,
except upon the special order of the High Court of the State, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja
or Federal High Court. no magistrate, or other persons before whom a proceeding is being
held shall be compelled to answer any questions as to his own conduct in court in any of the
capacities specified in this section. or as to anything which came to his knowledge in court in
such capacity but he may be examined as to other matters which occurred in his presence
whilst he was so acting.
189. No magistrate. police officer or any other public officer authorised to investigate or
prosecute offences under any written law shall be compelled to disclose the source of any
information as to the commission of an offence which he is so authorised to investigate or
prosecute and no public officer employed in or about the business of any branch uf the public
revenue, shall be compelled to disclose the source of any information as to the commission of
any offence against the public revenue.
190, (I) Subject to any direction of the President in any particular case, or ofthe Governor or
a State where the records are in the custody of a State, no one shall be permitted to produce
any unpublished official records relating to affairs of State, or to give any evidence derived
from such record except with the permission of the officer at the head of the Ministry.
Department or Agency concerned who shall give or withhold such permission as he thinks fit:
Provided that the head of the Ministry, Department or Agency concerned shall, on the order of
the court. produce to the judge the official record in question or, as the case may be. permit
evidence derived from it to be given to the judge alone in chambers; and if the judge after
careful consideration shall decide that the record or the oral evidence, as the case may be.
should be received as evidence in the proceeding. he shall order this to be done in private as
provided in section 36 (4) of the Constitution.
191. No public officer shall be compelled to disclose communications made to him in official
confidence, when he considers that the public interests would suffer by the disclosure:
Provided that the public officer concerned shall, on the order of the court. disclose to the judge
alone in chambers the substance of the communication in question; and if the judge is satisfied
that the communication should be received in evidence this shall be done in private in
accordance with section 36 (4) of the Constitution.
192. (L} No legal practitioner shall at any time be permitted, unless with his client's express
consent, to disclose any communication made to him in the course and for the purpose of his
employment as such legal practitioner by or on behalf of his client, or to state the contents or
condition of any document with which he has become- acquainted in the course and for the
purpose of his professional employment or to disclose any advice given by him to his client in
the course and for the purpose of such employment:
Provided that nothing in this section shall protect from disclosure
(a) any such communication made in furtherance of any illegal purpose; or
(ulllpdlahilit) ol
1'1Isr;,", ere", the
persons before whom
the proceeding i~
bcing held
Rcstncuon Oil
disclosure as to source
of information ill
respect III cnnuuisxion
of' offences
Evidence us to affairs
or Sttlte
( )ITicial
communrcauon
l'rofcssiona'
C(lll1Il1UIlIC(lII(lI,
between client and
legal practuicncr
(h) any fact observed by any legal practitioner in the course of his employment as
such. showing that any crime or fraud has been committed since the commencement
of his employment.
(2) It is immaterial whether the attention of such legal practitioner was or was not directed to
such fact by or on behalf of his client.
(J) The obligation stated in this section continues after the employment has ceased.
193. The provisions of section 192 shall apply to interpreters and the clerks of legal
practitioners.
194. If any party to a suit or proceeding gives evidence in such suit or proceeding. whether at
his own instance or otherwise, he shall not be deemed to have by this reason consented to such
disclosure as is mentioned in section 192 and, if any party to a suit or proceeding calls any
such legal practitioner as a witness, he shall be deemed to have consented to such disclosure
only if he questions such legal practitioner on mailers which, but for such question. he would
not he at liberty to disclose.
195. No one shall be compelled to disclose to the court any confidential communication
which has taken place between him and a legal practitioner consulted by him, unless he offers
himself as witness in which case he may be compelled to disclose any Stich communications
as may appear to the court necessary to be known, in order to explain any evidence which he
has given, but no others.
J 1)6. ;\ statement ill an) document marked "without prejudice" made in the course of
;·'(:~utiaLillllfor a settlement of a dispute out of court, shall not be given in evidence in In)
civil proceeding in proof of the matters stated in it.
Corroboration
197. No plaintiff in any action for breach of promise of marriage shall be entitled to succeed
unless his or her testimony is corroborated by some other material evidence in SUpp0l1 of such
promise: and the fact that the defendant did not answer letters affirming that he had promised
to marry the plaintiff is 1101 such corroboration.
198. (l ) An accomplice shall be a competent witness against a defendant, and a conviction is
not illegal merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice:
Provided that in cases when the only proof against a person charged with a criminal offence is
the evidence of an accomplice, uncorroborated in any material particular implicating the
defendant. the court shall direct itself that it is unsafe to convict any person upon such
evidence.
(2) In this section and section 199 of this Act. an accomplice is any person who pursuant to
Sccuon ll)~ 10 appl: to
intcrprctci-, and ckrh...~
Privilege not waived
by volunteering
evidence
Confidcutiu'
communication with
legal advisers
":dh'lll~·lll' il\
dO<.:Ullll:nl'lllilrLL·d
.\\ uhout prqudicl'"
Corrobornuon in
actions for brcuch of
promise 01" marriage
Accomplice
section 7 of the Criminal Code may he deemed to have taken part in committing the offence as
the defendant or is an accessory after the fact to the offence, or a receiver of stolen goods.
199. Where defendants are tried jointly and any of them gives evidence on his own behalf
which incriminates a co-defendant the defendant who gives such evidence shall not be
considered to be an accomplice.
200. Except as provided in sections 20 I to 204 of this Act, no particular number of witnesses
shall. in any case, be required for the proof of any fact.
201. (1) A.person charged with treason or with any of the felonies mentioned in sections 40,
41 and 42 of the Criminal Code Act cannot be convicted. except on his own plea of guilty. or
on the evidence in open court of two witnesses at least to one overt act of the kind of treason
or felony alleged. or the evidence of one witness to one overt act and one other witness to
another overt act of the same kind of treason 01' felony.
(2) Subsection II) of this section does not apply to cases in which the overt act of treason
alleged is the killing of the President or a direct attempt to endanger the life or injure the
person of the President.
202. A person shall not be convicted of committing perjury or for counseling or procuring
the commission of perjury, upon the uncorroborated testimony of one witness contradicting
the oath on which perjury is assigned, unless circumstances are proved which corroborated
such witness.
203. (1) A person charged under any road traffic legislation with driving at a speed higher
than tlu allowed maximum shallnot be convicted sulel) 011 the evidence of one witness that u:
tJ:,. 0PI-:li()Jl or that witness he was driving at such speed:
Provided that the evidence of a duly authorized officer of the relevant authority who was at
time ofthe commission of the ofIe nee operating any mechanical, electronic or other device for
the recording of the speed of a moving vehicle, the record of such device being additionally
tendered in evidence against the defendant, shall not require further corroboration.
(2) In this section. "relevant authority" means the Nigeria Police Force. the Federal Road
Safety Commission. or any other body charged with responsibility for offences of speeding
under the road traffic legislation
204. A person shall not be convicted of the offence of uttering seditious words under section
51 ( 1lIb) of the Criminal Code Act upon the uncorroborated testimony of one witness.
PART Xll--- TAKING OF ORAL EVIDeNCE AND EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES
7ilkil1g of Oral Evidence
205. Save as otherwise provided in sections 208 and 209 of this Act all oral evidence given
Co-defendant not all
accomplice
Number ofwirncsses
Jr~a~OlI and
nvasonub!c ulfcncc-,
l-vidcncc Oil charge nt
perjury
Lxcceding speed iimn
Sedition
Cap C3MLFN. 20(lil
Oral evidence to be 011
oath or nffinnnuon
in any proceeding must be given upon oath or affirmation administered in accordance with the
Oaths Act or Law. as the case may be.
20(). Any witness summoned to give oral evidence in any proceeding shall before giving
such evidence be cautioned by the court or the registrar upon the comes direction, in the
following words -_.
"You (Full name) are hereby cautioned that if you tell a lie in your
testimony in this proceeding or willfully mislead this court YOLI arc liable to be prosecuted and
if found guilty you will be seriously dealt with accordingly to law. II
207. Where an oath has been duly administered and taken, the fact that the person to whom
the same was administered had, at the time of taking such oath, no religious belief does not
for any purpose affect the validity of such oatil.
208. (I) Any court may. on any occasion. if it deems it just and expedient. receive the
evidence. though not given upon oath, of any person declaring that the taking of any oath
whatsoever is. according to his religious belief, unlawful. or who, by reason of want of
religious belief ought not. in the opinion of the court. to be admitted to give evidence upon
oath.
(2'1 The fact that in any case evidence not given upon oath has been received. and the reasons
for the reception of such evidence. shall be recorded in the minutes of the proceeding.
209. (1) In any proceeding in which a child who has not attained the age of l4 years is
tendered as a witness. such child shall not be sworn and shall give evidence otherwise than nil
oath C'~'alfirmation. if in the opinion or the court. he is possessed or sufficient intelligence i.t'
.iu~;{i):, l:lC reception ofhis evidence and understands the duty of speaking the truth.
(2) A child who has attained the age of 14 years shall. subject to sections 175 and 208 of this
Act give sworn evidence in all cases.
(3) A person shall 1101 be liable 10 be convicted 1'01' an offence unless the testimony admitted
by virtue of subsection (1) of this section and given on behalf of the prosecution is
corroborated by some other material evidence in support of such testimony implicating the
defendant
(4) If a child. whose evidence is received under this section, willfully gives false evidence in
such circumstances that he would, if the evidence had been given on oath have been guilty of
perjury. he shall be guilty of an offence under section 19J of the Criminal Code and on
conviction shall be dealt with accordingly.
Examination of Witnesses
210. Jhc order in which witnesses arc produced and examined shall be regulated by the law
and practice for the time being relating to civil and criminal procedure respectively. and. in the
Witness, 10 be
cautioned before
giving oral evidence
Absence of religious
belief does not
invalidate omh
Cases ill which
evidence not givclI
UpOl1 onth ma.\ he
received
I irIS\\(Hil ~'\ i.lcucc (1[ ,I
~·llikl
Order OfPfllclut·(I(.n
and cxmninnuon "I
-vnnesscs
absence of an) such law. at the discretion of the court.
211. (1) When either party proposes to give evidence of any fact, the court may ask the party
proposing to give the evidence in what manner the alleged tact. if proved, would be relevant:
and tile court shall admit the evidence if it thinks that the fact. if proved. would be relevant
and 1101 otherwise.
(2) lf thc fact proposed to hc proved is one of which evidence is admissible only upon proofof
some other fact. such last mentioned fact must be proved before evidence is given of the fact
I;rsl mentioned. unless the party undertakes to give proof of such fact. and the court is
:-;al isficd with such undertaking.
(:1) jf the relevancy of one alleged fact depends upon another alleged fact being first proved,
the court may in its discretion, either permit evidence of the first fact to be given before the
second fact is proved. or require evidence to be given of the second fact before evidence is
given of tile first fact.
212. On the application of either party, or of its own motion, the court may order witnesses
on both sides to be kept out of court; but this provision does not extend to the parties
themselves or to their respective legal advisers, although intended to be called as witnesses.
213. The court may during any trial take such means as it considers necessary and proper for
preventing communication with witnesses who are within the court house or its precincts
awaiting examination.
11'-l. (1,1 The examination ora witness h) the part~ who calls him shall he called examin.uion￾in-chief
(2) Tile examination of a witness by a party other than the party who calls him shall be called
cross-ex ami nation.
(3) Where" witness has been cross-examined and is then examined by the party who sailed
him. such examination shall he called re-examination.
2J 5. (J) Witnesses shall he first examined-ill-chief then, if' any other party so desires, cross￾examined. then, if the party calling him so desires, re-examined.
(2) The examination and cross-examination must relate to relevant facts, but the cross￾examination need not be confined to the facts to which the witness testified on his
ex am inat ion- in-ch icf.
(3) The re-examination shall be directed to the explanation of matters referred to in cross￾examination and if a new matter is. by permission of the court. introduced in re-examination.
the adverse party may further cross-examine upon that matter.
Court to decide as lo
admission of c\ idcucc
Ordering witnesses (lUI
(If COHrl
Preventing
cornmunicuunn With
witnesses
r.x.muuut j( 111-:11-';1'. .ct.
,:H is:,-':,\<tm 111,11.Il' I', (I", L,
rc- ex all ,I 11ill I,'I ;
Order and dirccuun o l
CX<l11l11l11(lon
216. Where more than one defendant is charged at the same time each defendant shall be
allowed to cross-examine a witness called by the prosecution before the witness is re￾examined.
217. Where more than one defendant is charged at the same time, a witness called by one
defendant may be cross-examined by the other defendant and if cross-examined by the other
defendant such cross-examination shall take place before cross-examination by the
prosecution,
218. A persun. whether a part) or n01 in a cause, may be summoned to produce a document
without being summoned to give evidence. and if he causes such document to be produced in
cour: tile court may dispense with his personal attendance,
219. A person summoned to produce a document does not become a witness by the mere
bet that he produces it and cannot be cross-examined unless and until he is called as a
'witness.
220. Witnesses to character may be cross-examined and re-examined.
Crosv-c xumiuuuon h~
co-dcfcndaruof
prusccuuon \\Jtlles~
Cross-examinauon by￾co-dcfcndant ut
witness called b) a
defendant.
Production oj
documcms \\ ithout
giving evidence
Cross-cxanunaunn of
person called 10
produce a document
WiIIlC~~e:;to character
221. (l) Any question suggesting the answer which the person putting it wishes or expects to Leading question
receive is called a leading question.
(.2) Leading questions shall not be asked in examination-in-chief or in re-examination. except
with the permission of the court
(:3) "I'!-"_' lT~I_n shall permit leading q~lesljnl1S as to inaucrs which an: irtroductorv (1;'
ilnd\"i'\\:CO. or which have. in its opinion. been already sufficiently proved.
14) Leading questions may be asked in cross-examination.
222. (J) A witness may be asked. whilst under examination, whether any contract. grant or
ether disposition of property. as to which he is giving evidence was not contained in ;:;;
document. and if he says that it was, or if he is about to make any statement as to the contents
of any document. which. in the opinion of the court, ought to be produced, the adverse part)
ruav object to such evidence being given until such document is produced, or until facts have
he en proved which entitle the party who called the witness to give secondary evidence of it.
(2) A witness may give oral evidence of statements made by other persons about the content
of a document if such statements are in themselves relevant facts.
223. When a witness is cross-examined, he may. in addition to the question referred to 1I1
preceding sections of this Part. be asked any question which tend to ---"
(a) test his accuracy veracity or credibility: or
Evidence as to rnaucr-,
ill " nun
Qucsriontawfu! ill
cross-exam inatinn
(b) discover who he is and what is his position in lite: or
(c) shake his credit by injuring his character:
Provided that a person charged with a criminal offence and being a witness may be
cross-examined to the effect, and under the circumstances, described in paragraph (c)
of the proviso to section 180 of this Act.
224. (J) If any question permitted to be asked under section 223 of this Act relates to a matter
not relevant to the proceeding, except in so far as it affects the credit of the of the witness by
injuring his character, the court shall decide whether or not the witness shall be compelled to
answer it. and may, if' it thinks fit. warn the witness that he is not obliged to answer it.
(2) In exercising its discretion, the court shall have regard to the fallowing considerations-·-
(a) SIKh question are proper ifthey are ofsuch a nature that the truth of the imputation
conveyed by them would seriously affect the opinion ofthe court as to the credibility
of the witness on the matter to which he testifies;
(b) such questions arc improper if the imputation which they convey relates to matters
so remote in time, or of such a character, that the truth of the imputation would not
affect, or would affect in a slight degree, the opinion of the court as to the credibility or
the witness on the matter to which he testifies; and
(c) such questions are improper if there is a great disproportion between the
importance of the imputation made against the witness's character and the importance
c!"his evidence.
(3) The court rnay, if it deems fit draw, from the refusal of the witness to answer, tin;
inference that the answer if given would be unfavourable.
225. Any question referred to in section 224 of this Act may not be asked, unless the person
asking it has reasonable grounds 1'01' thinking that the imputation which it conveys is well
founded.
226. If the court is of the opinion that any question referred to in section 224 was asked
without reasonable grounds, it may, if it was asked by any legal practitioner. report the
circumstances of the case to the Auorney-Gencral of the Federation or other authority to
which such legal practitioner is subject in the exercise of his profession.
227. The court may forbid any question or inquiry which it regards as indecent or scandalous
although such questions or inquiries may have some bearing on the questions before the court.
unless they relate to facts in issue or to matters necessary to be known in order to determine
whether or not the facts in issue existed.
Court to decide
whether question shall
be asked 111ld\\·l1cn il
witness Illa~ be
compelled 10 '-'11:-.11(;1
l)ueslio:l not 10'be'
ask,x! wjlhpu\
rcusonnblc ~1('1I1l(;_'
Procedure 01 cOLIn in
case ofqucsuon hcing
asked withoul
reasollabk grounds
lndcccm and
scal\dalOlI~ qUl'~llllJIS
228. The court shall forbid any question which appears to it to be intended to insult or annoy.
or which. though pl'Oper in itself. appears to the court needlessly offensive in form.
229. When a witness has been asked and has answered any question which is relevant to the
inquiry only in so far as it tends to shake his credit by injuring his character. no evidence shall
be given 10 contradict him, but if' he answers falsely. he may afterwards be charged with an
offence under section 191 of the Criminal Code and on conviction. shall be dealt with
accordingly:
Provided that if a witness is asked ----
fa) whether he has been previously convicted or any crime and denies it, evidence may
be given of his previous conviction; or
(b) any question tending to impeach his impartiality and answers it by denying the facts
suggested. he may be contradicted.
230. lhe party producing a witness shall not be allowed to impeach his credit by general
evidence of bad character, but he may in case the witness shall, in the opinion of the court.
prove hostile, contradict him by other evidence, or by leave of court, prove that he has made at
other times a statement inconsistent with his present testimony; but before such last mentioned
proof can be given the circumstances or the supposed statement, sufficient to designate the
particular occasion. must be mentioned to the witness and he must be asked whether or not be
has made such statement.
2.31. Ira witness upon cross-examination as to a former statement made by him relative to
the sul-jcct-maucr of the tria! and inconsistent with his present testimony. doe" nnl distinct).:-
admit l1~a~he has made such statement. proof may he given that he did III [act make iL but
before such proof can be given the circumstances of the supposed statement sufficient to
designate the particular occasion must be mentioned to the witness. and he must be asked
whether or not he has made such statement.
232. A witness may be cross-examined as to previous statements made by him in writing or
reduced into writing and relative to matters in question in the suit or proceeding in which he is
cross-examined without such writing being shown to him or being proved. but if it is, intended
to contradict such witness by the writing. his attention must, before such writing can be
proved. or such contradictory proof given, be called to those parts of the writing which arc to
be used for the purpose of' contradicting him:
Provided always that it shall be competent for the court at any time during the trial to require
the production olthe writing for its inspection. and the court may thereupon make usc of it for
the purposes of the trial. as it deems fit.
233. The credit ora witness may be impeached in the following ways by any party other than
the party calling him or with the consent of the court by the party who calls him
Oucsuon-, intended to
insult or WIno)
Exclusion of evidence
to cruuradict answers
to questions testing
vcracit',
How far (I l)flrl~ IlHl~
discredit his own
\1'HnCS;;
Proof (l f COIlII <I' !ic\()r~
"U\l'I11C!,1 pi" ilU'cli k
\, !I,'n'::,-
c n.ss-cxarninauon r1~;
\0 prevrou, Sl;JIL'Il·,<.:I,l~
in vnung
lmpcachinp credit «r
Iliiness
(a) by the evidence of persons who testify that they, hom their knowledge of the
witness, believe him to be unworthy of credit;
(b) by proof that the witness has been bribed, or has accepted the offcr of a bribe, or
has received any other corrupt inducement to give his evidence; or
(c) by proof of former statements inconsistent with any part of his evidence which is
liable to be cnntradictecl.
234. Where a person is prosecuted lor rape or attempt to commit rape or lor indecent assault,
except with the leave of the court no evidence shall be adduced, and, except with the like
leave. no question in cross-examination shall be asked by or on behalf of the defendant. about
any sexual experience of the complainant with any person other than the defendant.
235. A witness declaring another witness to be UI1w0l1hy of credit may not, upon his
examination-in-chief, give reasons for his belief but he may be asked his reasons in cross￾examination, and the answers which he gives cannot be contradicted, though, ifthey are false,
he may afterwards be charged with an offence under section 191 of the Criminal Code and 011
conviction, shall be dealt with accordingly,
236. When a witness gives evidence of any relevant fact, he may be questioned as Lo any
other circumstances which he observed at or near to the time or place at which such relevant
fact occurred, if the court is of the opinion that such circumstances if proved. would render
more probable the testimony of the witness as to the relevant fact which he testifies
237, t\ny former statement made b~ a wiuiess relating 10 the same JaC! at Of abuUl the time
when the fact took place. or before any authority legally competent to investigate the fact max
be proved in order to show consistency in the testimony or the witness or to show that his
testimony is not an afterthought.
238. Whenever any statement admissible under sections 40 to 50 or this Act, is proved, all
matters may be proved either in order to contradict or to confirm it, or in order to impeach OJ
confirm the credit of the person by whom it was made, which might have been proved if that
person had been called as a witness and had denied upon cross-examination the truth of the
matter, suggested.
239. (1) A witness may, while under examination, refresh his memory by referring to an)
writing made by himself at the time of the transaction concerning which he is questioned, or
so soon afterwards that the court considers it likely that the transaction was at that time fresh
in his memory.
(2) The witness may also refer to any such writing made by any other person. and read by the
witness within the time mentioned in subsection (1) ofthis section, if when he read it he knew
i1 10 be correct.
Special rcstncuons ill
respect oj' pcrmisvihlc
evidence in uial (or
sexual offence￾Evidence or\\'itlll~s.\
impeaching credit
Questions lending 10
render evidence ol
relevant fact more
probable. admissible
1,;1'11](';1 suucmcm.. 01
I' ilnes:, 11](1: he pn'l ';11
in ~hO\1 l'1)Jl\hl~n~\
What matters illll> be
proved ill connccu«-
with proved suucmcn.
relevant under s(!diolb
4(lloS(l
Refreshing rncmurv
(3) An expert may refresh his memory by reference to professional treatises.
240. A witness may also testily to facts mentioned in any such document as is mentioned in
section 239 of this Ac1. although he has no specific recollection or the facts themselves. if he
is sure that the facts were correctly recorded in the document.
241. Any writing referred to under sections 239 and 240 of this Act, shall be produced and
shown to the adverse party if he requires it. and such party may, if he pleases, cross-examine
the witness upon tbe writing.
242. (i) Subject to section 24301' this Act. a witness summoned to produce a document shall.
if it is in his possession or power, bring it to court. notwithstanding any objection which there
may be to its production or to its admissibility and the validity of any such objection shall be
dec ided by the court,
(2) The court, if it deems fit, may inspect the document or take other evidence to enable it to
determine on its admissibility.
(3) If for such a purpose, it is necessary to cause any document to be translated, the court may.
if it thinks fir. direct the translator to keep the contents secret unless the document is to be
given in evidence and, if the translator disobeys such direction, he shall be held to have
committed an offence under section 97 (1) of the Criminal Code.
243. (1) A Minister. or in respect of matters to which the executive authority of a State
extends. the Governor or any person nominated by him. may in any proceeding object to the
I'rnc1uc;',.'·n of .locumcn.s or request the exclusion of oral evidence when after consideration 1',,~,
t.' satisr;ed that the production of such document or the giving of such oral evidence is against
public interest.
(2) Any objection mentioned in subsection (1) of titis section shall, if taken-
(a) before trial. be by affidavit: or
(b) at the bearing, be by certificate produced by a public officer.
(3) The court shall have a discretion' whether or not to uphold any such objection. and may in
determining how to exercise its discretion, inspect such documents or be informed as to the
nature of the oral evidence to which the objection relates.
244. When a party calls for 0 document which he has given the other party notice to produce,
and such document is produced and inspected by the party calling for its production. he is
bound to give it as evidence if the party producing it requires him to do so.
245, When a part)' refuses to produce a document which he has had notice to produce. he
cannot afterwards use the document as evidence without the consent of the other party or thc
rC~lilll()n~ 10 lacts
slaled ill document
mentioned ill section
239.
Right "1',,,1,'"," 1"0",
1I~10writing u~cd Itl
refresh mcmorv.
l'roducuon of
documents
E:-;clusiol1 (lrCI ictcncc
on grOlIIl(h t!r public
.utvrcst
Cliying <I.' evidence
document called rOI
and produced Oil
nonce
Using. as evidence :1.
or document
production (If \\'hicb
order ofthe court.
246. (I) The court or any other person empowereeJ by law to take evidence may. in order to
clear lip ambiguities or to clarify points which have been left obscure in the evidence given by
any witness, ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time of any witness, or of the
parties about any fact relevant or irrelevant; and may order the production of any document or
thing: and neither the parties nor their agents shall be entitled to make any objection to any
such question or order or, without the leave of the court, to cross-examine any witness upon
any answer given in reply to any such question.
(2,1 The question referred to in subsection. 1) of this section shall be based upon facts declared
by this Act to be relevant, and duty proved; and
(3) II judge shall not under this section authorise any judge to compel any witness to answer
any question or to produce any document which such witness would be entitled to refuse to
answer or produce under this Act, if the question were asked or the documents were called for
loy the adverse party: nor shall the judge ask any question which it would be improper for any
person to ask under section 224 or 225 of this Act nor shall the judge dispense with primary
evidence of any document, except in the cases excepted in preceding sections of this Act.
247. In cases tried with assessors, the assessors may put any question to the witnesses. through
or by leave of the judge. which the judge himself may put and which he considers proper.
PART XIII --- EVIDENCE OF PREVIOUS CONVICTION
2~8. (I) Where it i,<; necessary to prove a conviction of a criminal offence. the same may he
pnl\'cCI
(a) hy the production of a certificate of conviction containing the substance and
effect of the conviction only, purporting to be signed by the registrar or other officer
of the court in whose custody is the record such of the said conviction:
(b: if the conviction was before a customary court. by a similar certificate signed b.
the clerk of court or scribe of the court in whose custody is the record of the said
such conviction: or
(c) by a certificate purporting to be signed by the Director of Prisons or officer in
charge of the records of a prison in which the prisoner was confined giving the
offence for which the prisoner was convicted. the date and the sentence.
(2) If 8 person alleged to be the person referred to in the certificate denies that he is such
person the certificate shall not be put in evidence unless the court is satisfied by the evidence.
that the individual in question and the person named in the certificate are the same.
1\(1\ refused 011 notice
Judge's j1mlL'l to put
questions 01' ordct
producuon or
documents. etc
Power uf ClSSCSSlHS to
rut questions.
Proof (If pn::1~~lll~
L'OI1I'icti(lI1
241). (J) A previous conviction in a place outside Nigeria may be proved by the production of
,;1 ccrtuicnie purporting to be given under the hand of a police officer ill the country where the
conviction was had, containing a copy of the sentence or order and the finger prints of the
person or ph(}lugrhphs of the finger prints of the person so convicted. together with evidence
that the finger prints of the person so convicted are those of the defendant.
(2) A certificate given under subsection (l) of this section shall be prima facie evidence of all
facts set out in it. without proof that the officer purporting to sign it did in fact sign it and was
empowered to do so.
250, (J)!\ previous conviction may be proved against any person ill any criminal proceeding
by the production of such evidence of the conviction as is mentioned in this section, and by
showing that his finger prints and those of the person convicted are the finger prints of the
same person.
(2) A certificate -
(a) purporting to be signed by or on behalf of the central registrar;
(b) containing particulars relating to a conviction extracted from the criminal records
kept by him or a photographic copy certified as such of particulars relating to a
conviction as entered in the said records: and
(c) certifying that the copies of the finger print exhibited to the certificate arc copies
of the finger prints appearing from the said record to have been taken from the
person convicted on the occasion of the conviction, shall be evielence of the
conviction and evidence that the copies of the finger prints i-xhihitcd to the certificate
arc copies of the finger prints of the person convicted.
(3) A cC!·lificatc·-·
(a) purporting to be signed by or on behalf of the superintendent of (:1 prison in which
any person has been detained ill connection with any criminal proceeding or by a
police officer who has had custody of any person charged with an offence in
connection with any such proceeding; and
(b) certifying that the finger prints exhibited to it were taken from such person while
he was so detained or was in such custody as mentioned in paragraph (a), shall he
evidence in those proceeding that the linger prints exhibited to the certificate are the
finger prints of that person.
(4) A certificate
(a) purporting to be signed by or on behalf of the central registrar: and
(b; certifying that---
Pl'Oof of 111'1:1inus
conviction outside
Nigeria
Additional mode 01
proof ill criminal
proceeding of CI
previous COIH'ICliOIl
Cap. ]>27 LFN.2(J04.
(i) the finger prints copies of which arc certified as mentioned in this
section by or on behalf of the central registrar to be copies or the finger
prints of" person previously convicted, and
(ii) the linger prints certified by or on behalf 01' the superintendent of the
prison or the police officer as mentioned in this section or otherwise
shown to be the finger prints of the person against whom the previous
conviction is sought to be proved arc the finger prints of the same person,
shall be evidence of the mailer so ccrti fied.
(5) The method of proving a previous conviction authorised by this section shall he in
addition to any other method authorised by law for proving such conviction.
(6) For the purposes of this section, lithe central registrar" means the person in charge of the
principal registry of criminal records established under the Prevention of Crimes Act. Cap. 1'27 1.1, '0("
P/,I{T XlV-- WRONGFUL ADMISSION AND REJECTION OF EVIDENCE
251, (1) The wrongful admission of evidence shall not of itself be a ground [or the reversal of
any decision in any case where it appears to the court on appeal that the evidence so admitted
cannot reasonably be held to have affected the decision and that such decision would have
been the same if such evidence had not been admitted.
(2) The wrongful exclusion of evidence shall not of itself be a ground for the reversal of an)
decision in any case if it appears to the court on appeal that had the evidence excluded been
admitted it may reasonably be held that the decision would have been the same.
<-;) In ll:i:; section the term "decision" includes a judgment. order, finding or verdict.
PART XV- SERVICE ,'ND EXECUTION THROUGH-OUT NIGERIA OF PROCESS TO COMPEl. 'IIII'
A ITENDAN(f Of WITNESSES BEFORE COURTS OF THE S"IATES AND TIIF FEDERAL CAPITAL
TERRITOR v, AHUJA AND THE FEDER' L HIGH COUR T
252. In this Part
jurisdiction
"Court" means a High Court or a magistrate's court and courts of simi lar
253. (I) When a subpoena or summons has been issued by any court in any State or in the
Federal Capital '1erritory, Ahuja or by the Federal High Court in the exercise of its civil
jurisdiction in accordance with any power conferred by law requiring any person to appear
and give evidence or to produce books or documents ill any proceeding. such subpoena or
slim mons may upon proof that the testimony of such person or the production of such books
or documents is necessary in the interests ofjustice by leave of such e01l11on such terms as the
court may impose be served on such person in any other State or the Federal Capital Territory.
Ahuja
(2) If a person upon whom a subpoena or summons has been served in accordance with
Wrongful admIssion OJ
exclusion of t'vide!H:c
Dcfiniuor (01 "( \)UI'
in thi;, r,-!JI
xubpocnu or \\Illlt:'.~
summons llHl~ bv
served in another S\<lIL'
subsection (1) of this section fails to attend at the time and place mentioned ill such subpoena
OJ' summons such court may. on proof that the subpoena or summons was duly served on such
person and that the sum prescribed by law was tendered to him for his expenses, issue such
warrant for the apprehension of such person as such court might have issued if the subpoena
or summons had been served in the State or the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja in which it
was issued.
(3) Such warrant may be executed in such other Slate or the Federal Capital Territory, Ahuja
in the manner provided in Chapter 12 of the Criminal Procedure Act. in the case of warrants
issued for the apprehension of persons charged with an offence.
254. (1) Where it appears to any court of a State 01' of the Federal Capital Territory. Abuja
that the attendance before the court of a person who is undergoing sentence in any State or the
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja is necessary for the purpose of obtaining evidence in any
proceeding before the court, the court may issue an order directed to the superintendent or
officer in charge of the prison or place where the person is undergoing sentence requiring him
to produce the person at the time and place specified in the order.
Orders I'm production
nr prisoners
(2) Any order made under this section may be served upon the superintendent or officer to
whom it is directed in any State or the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, he may be and he
shall thereupon produce in such custody as the superintendent or officer thinks fit, the person
referred to in the order at the time and place specified in it.
(3) The COUl'l before which any person is produced in accordance with an order issued under
this section mav make such order as to the costs of compliance with this order as may seem
just to the court.
PART XVI
255. The Minister charged with responsibility for justice may. from time to time. make
regulations generally prescribing further conditions with respect to admissibility of any cia",
or evidence that may be relevant under this Act.
256. (J) This ACl shall appiy to alJ judicial proceeding in or before any court established in,\ppJicalion
the Federal Republic of Nigeria but it shall not apply to ---
(a) proceeding before an arbitrator:
(b) a field general court martial: or
(d) judicial proceeding in any civil cause or matter in or before any Sharia Court of
Appeal, Customary Court of Appeal. Area Court or Customary Court,
unless any authority empowered to do so under the Constitution, by order
published in the Gazette, confers upon any or all Shari a Courts of Appeal.
Customary Courts of Appeal. Area Courts or Customary Courts in the Federal Cap. (42 IXr\. 20u·1
Capital Territory Abuja or a State, as the case may be, power to enforce any or
all the provisions of this Act.
(2) In judicial proceeding in any criminal cause or matter, in or before an Area Court. the
court shall be guided by the provisions of this Act and in accordance with the provisions of the
Criminal Procedure Code Law.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in this section, an Area Court shall, in judicial proceeding in any
criminal cause or matter. be bound by the provisions or sections ]34 to J 40.
257. The Evidence Act Cap EI4 Laws of the Federation or Nigeria. 2004 is repealed.
258. (I) In this Act
"bank" or "banker" means a bank licensed under the Banks and Other Financial Institutions
Act Cap. B3LFN. 2004 and includes anybody authorised under an enactment to carryon
banking business;
"banker's books" (and related expressions) includes ledger, day books. cash books. account
books and all other books used in banking business;
"banking business" has the meaning assigned to it in the Banks .and Other Financial
Institutions Act 199]:
"the Constitution" means the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999:
"copy PI' (l document' includes-:
(a) ill the case of a document falling within paragraph (b) but not (c) or the definition
of "document" in this subsection, a transcript of the sounds or other data embodied in
it:
(b) in the case of a document falling within paragraph (b) but not (c) of that definition.
a reproduction or still reproduction of the image or images embodied in it whether
enlarged or not:
(c) in the case of a document falling within both those paragraphs, such a transcript
together with such a still reproduction: and
(d) in the case of a document not falling within the said paragraph (c) of' which a
visual image is embodied in a document railing within that pam graph. a reproduction
of that image. whether enlarged on not, and any reference to a copy of the material
part of a document shall be construed accordingly;
"computer" means any device for storing and processing information, and any reference to
information being derived from other information is a reference to its being derived from it by
Repeal
Interpretation
calculation. comparison or any other process:
"court" includes all judges and magistrates and, except arbitrators, all persons legally
authorised to take evidence:
"custom" means a rule which, in a particular district, has, n'Ol11 long usage, obtained the force
of law;
"document" includcs￾la) books. maps, plans, graphs. drawings, photographs, and also includes any matter
expressed or described upon any substance by means of letters, figures or marks or by
more than one of these means, intended to be used or which may be used for the
purpose of recording that matter;
(b) any disc. tape, sound track or other device in which sounds or other data (not
being visual images) are embodied so as to be capable (with or without the aid of
some other equipment) of being reproduced from it, and
(e) any film, negative, tape or other device in which one or more visual Images are
embodied so as to be capable (with or without the aid of some other equipment) of
being reproduced from it; and
(el) any device by means of which information is recorded. stored or retrievable
including computer output:
"fact" includes-
(a) anything. state of things, or relation of things, capable of being perceived by the
senses: and
(b) any mental condition of which any person is conscious:
"fact ill issue" includes an) fact from which either by itself or in connection with other facts
the existence, non-existence. nature or extent of any right. liability or disability asserted or
denied in any suit or proceeding necessarily follows:
"film" includes a microfilm:
"financial institution" has the meaning assigned to "other financial institution" by the Banks
and Other linancial Institutions Act 199]:
"person interested" means any person likely to be personally affected by the outcome of a
proceeding;
"Public Service of the l-cderation or of a State" has the meaning assigned thereto in the
Constitution: and "public officer" shall be construed accordingly;
"real evidence" means anything other than testimony admissible hearsay or a document the
contents of which are offered as evidence of a fact at a trial. which is examined by the court as
a means of proof of such fact;
"statement" includes any representation of fact whether made in words or otherwise: and
"wife" and "husband" mean respectively the wile and husband of a marriage validly
contracted under the Marriage Act, or under Islamic law or a Customary law applicable 111
Nigeria, and includes any marriage recognised as valid under the Marriage Act.
(2)111 this Act, any reference to a section or other provision of the Criminal Code Act or the
Criminal Procedure Act shall, as case may be, be construed as including a reference to the
corresponding section or provision of the Criminal Code Law or Penal Code I.aw or the
Criminal Procedure Code Law of a State or in respects of the Federal Capital Territory,
Ahuja, the Penal Code Act or the Criminal Procedure Code Act, whichever may be
appropriate.
259, This Act may be cited as the Evidence Act. 20 II. Citation
I CEIUIFY, IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 2 (1) OF THE ACTS
AUTHENTICATION ACT, CAP. A2, LA WS OF THE FEDERATION OF NIGERIA 2004,
THAT THIS IS A TRUE COPY OF THE BILL PASSED BY BOTH HOUSES OF THE
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
~
SALISU ABUBAKAR MAlKASUWA, mni
CLERK TO THE NATIONAL ASSEMBL Y
wi>
~ DAY OF JUNE, 2011
Schedule to Evidence Bill, 2011.
I
SHORT TITLE OF I LONG TITLE OF THE
THE BILL \ BILL
II
i SUMMARY OF THE I DATE PASSED
: cONTENTS OF THE \ BY THE SENATE
BILL I
-r---------------------!----- ---
Evidence j 1" June, 2011
Bill,2011. An Act to repeal the" Evidence i
Act, Cap. E14, Laws 01 the I
Federation of Nigeria, and enact a ,
new Evidence Act which shall I]
apply to all judicial proceedings i
in or before Courts in Nigeria; :
and tor related matters !
This Bill seeks to repeal the
Evidence Act, Cap. E14, Laws of the
Federation of Nigeria, and enacts a
new Evidence Ad, 2011 which
applies to alJ judicial proceedings in
or before Courts in Nigeria.
I
i DATE PASSED
'I BY THE HOUSE OF
~EPRESE"lTA TlVES •
I -,
i 19th May. 1011
I
I
'--------- ..------'-------------~ i . _
._"'------ ----,----------------
I certify that this Bill has been carefully compared by me with the decision reached by the National Assembly and found by me
to be true and correct decision of the Houses and is in accordance with the provisions of the Acts Authentication Act Cap. A2,
Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. ~
SALISU ABUBAKAR MA.i.KASUWA, mni
_C!e~ to the National Assembly
;-W-1Jay of June 011
I ASSENT. DR. GOODLiJd( EBELE JO]\ATHAN, GCFR
President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
'$~ Day ,,1'JU!1t', 2Q11