
1. The Evidence Act, No. 18, 2011 (in this Act referred to as "the Principal Act") is 
amended as set out in this Act. 
2. Section 84 of the Principal Act is amended -
(a) in subsection (2) (a), by inserting after the word "document", the words "or 
electronic records"; 
(b) in subsection (2) (b), by substituting for paragraph (b), a new paragraph "(b)" -
"(b) that during the period, information of the kind contained in the 
electronic record or of the kind from which the information so 
contained is derived was regularly fed into the computer in the 
ordinary course of the activities"; 
(c) in subsection (2) (c), by inserting after the word "document", the words "or 
electronic records"; 
(d) in subsection (2) (d), by inserting after the word "statement", the words "or 
electronic records"; 
(e) in subsection (4) (a) and (b), by inserting after the words "document", the words 
"or electronic record"; and 
(f) in subsection (S) (c), by inserting after the word "document" the words "or 
electronic records". 
3. (1) Insert after section 84 of the Principal Act, new sections "84A"- "84D" -
"Information in electronic form 
84A. Where any law provides that information or any other matter shall 
be in writing or in the typewritten or printed form, then, 
Commencement 
Amendment of Act 
No. 18, 2011 
Amendment of 
section 84 
Insertion of new 
sections 84A-84D 
• 
notwithstanding anything contained in such law, such requirement 
shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such infonnation or matter 
• 
IS-
(a) rendered or made available in an electronic form; and 
(b) accessible so as to be usable for a subsequent reference. 
Records in a computer to be admissible 
84B. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, any information 
contained in an electronic record which is printed on a paper, 
stored, recorded or copied in optical or magnetic media or cloud 
computing or database produced by a computer shall be deemed to 
also be a document, if the conditions mentioned in this section are 
satisfied in relation to the information and computer in question and 
shall be admissible in any proceeding, without further proof or 
production of the original, as evidence or any contents of the 
original or of any fact stated in it of which direct evidence would 
be admissible. 
Authentication of electronic record 
84C. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section any person may 
authenticate an electronic record by affixing his digital 
signature on it. 
(2) A person may authenticate any electronic record by such digital 
signature or electronic authentication technique which -
(a) is considered reliable; or 
(b) may be specified by this Act. 
(3) For the purpose of this subsection (2), any digital signature or 
electronic authentication technique will be considered reliable 
if-
(a) the signature creation data or t:ii.e authentication data are, 
within the context in which they are used, linked to the 
signatory or, as the case may be, the authenticator and of no 
other person; 
(b) any alteration to the digital signature made after affixing such 
signature is detectable; 
( c) any alteration to the information made after its authentication 
by the digital signature is detectable; and 
-- • 
• 
( d) it fulfils such other conditions which may be prescribed. 
Proof of digital signature 
84D. (1) Except in the case of a secure digital signature, if the digital 
signature of any person is alleged to have been affixed to an 
electronic record, the fact that such digital signature is the 
digital signature of the person must be proved. 
(2) A digital signature shall be deemed to be secure if the signature 
creation data -
(a) at the time of affixing the signature, was under the exclusive 
control of the signatory and no other person; and 
(b) was stored and affixed in such exclusive manner as may be 
prescribed." 
4. Section 93 of the Principal Act is amended in subsections (1)-(3), by inserting after 
the words "electronic signature" the words "or digital signature". 
5. Substitute for section 108 of the Principal Act, a new section "108" -
" Affidavit to be filled. 
108. (1) Before an affidavit is used in the court for any purpose, the 
original shall be filed in the court and the original or an office 
copy shall alone be recognised for any purpose in the court. 
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), where the affidavit is deposed 
to electronically before any person duly authorised to take 
affidavits, a copy shall be filed at the court registry and may be 
recognised for any purpose in the court." 
6. Section 109 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after the word, "Nigeria", the 
words, "whether in person or through audio-visual means." 
7. Section 110 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after the word, "Nigeria", the 
words, "whether in person or through audio-visual means." 
8. Section 119 (2) of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after paragraph (b ), a new 
paragraph "(ba)" -
"(ba) if the affidavit is taken via audio-visual means, then the electronic 
record shall state which audio-visual method was used and the date 
on which it was used." 
• 
Amendment of 
section 93 
Substitution for 
section 108 
Amendment of 
section 109 
Amendment of 
section 110 
Amendment of 
section 119 
--
• 
• 
9. Substitute for section 255 of the Principal Act, a new section "255" -
"255. (1) The Minister charged with responsibility for justice may make 
regulations generally prescribing further conditions with 
respect to admissibility of any class of evidence that may be 
relevant under this Act. 
(2) Where a law provides that a rule, regulation, notification, or 
any other matter be published in the Federal Government 
Gazette, the requirement shall be deemed to, have been 
satisfied if the rule, regulation, notification, or any other matter 
is published in the Federal Government Gazette or Electronic 
Gazette." 
10. Section 258 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting in alphabetical order the 
interpretations of -
"audio-visual communication" means being able to see, hear and 
communicate with another individual in real time, using electronic means; 
"cloud computing" means the delivery of different services through the 
internet, including data storage, servers, databases, networking, and 
software; 
"computer" means any device for storing and processing information, 
including mobile phones, and any reference to information being derived 
from it by calculation, comparison, or any other process; 
"digital signature" means an electronically generated signature which is 
attached to an electronically transmitted document to verify its contents 
and the sender's identity; 
"Electronic Gazette" means official Gazette published in the electronic 
form; 
"electronic record" means data, record or data generated, image or sound 
stored, received, or sent in an electronic form or microfilm; 
"electronic signature" means authentication of any electronic record by a 
subscriber by means of the electronic technique specified in the Second 
Schedule and includes digital signature; 
''magnetic media" includes cassette tapes, hard disks, floppy disks, video, 
and computer tapes; and 
Substitution for 
section 255 
Amendment of 
section 258 
• 
• 
"optical media" means DVD, CD and Blu-ray." 
11. This Act may be cited as the Evidence Act (Amendment) Act, 2023. Citation 
